Death and
Invalidity
beneﬁts
                                                       Issued 31 October 2025
The information in this ‘Death and invalidity beneﬁts’ document forms part of the Military Superannuation
and Beneﬁts Scheme (MilitarySuper) Product Disclosure Statement (PDS), tenth edition, issued on
31 October 2025 available at csc.gov.au/militarysuper-pds


Things to remember when reading this document
Any ﬁnancial product advice in this document is general advice only and has been prepared without
taking account of your personal objectives, ﬁnancial situation or needs. Before acting on any such
general advice, you should consider the appropriateness of the advice, having regard to your own
objectives, ﬁnancial situation and needs. You may wish to consult a licensed ﬁnancial adviser.
You should obtain a copy of the MilitarySuper PDS and consider its contents before making any
decision regarding your super.
Commonwealth Superannuation Corporation (CSC) ABN: 48 882 817 243 AFSL: 238069 RSEL: L0001397
Trustee and Issuer of the Military Superannuation and Beneﬁts Scheme (MilitarySuper)
ABN: 50 925 523 120 RSEL: R1000306
Information in this document is up to date at the time of preparation, but we may make changes
from time to time. Any changes that are not materially adverse will be updated on our website at
csc.gov.au/militarysuper-pds or you can obtain a paper copy free of charge by contacting us on
1300 006 727.
The oﬀer to which this document relates is available only to persons eligible to become a member of
MilitarySuper under the Military Superannuation and Beneﬁts Act 1991 (Cth), receiving this
document (electronically or otherwise) in Australia.




                                                                                                            1 of 10
                                                                                                            1 of 10
Invalidity beneﬁts
If you are retired from the Australian Defence Force (ADF) on the ground of invalidity, you may be
eligible to receive a MilitarySuper invalidity beneﬁt to help you resettle into civilian employment.
However, you will not be eligible for invalidity beneﬁts if your retirement or transition from the ADF:
• occurred within your ﬁrst two years of eligible service and was due to a condition that was
   present on entry and was not materially aggravated by your current period of service;
• in the opinion of CSC, was a result of your wilful action to obtain an invalidity beneﬁt; or
• was because of an injury which occurred while you were absent without leave (AWOL) for a
  period over 21 consecutive days, and your salary and allowances for that period had been
  forfeited under the regulations made under the Defence Act 1903 (Cth).
If none of these conditions apply to you, then you may be eligible to receive an invalidity
beneﬁt, regardless of whether the condition that led to your transition from the ADF was
service–related or not.
CSC will assess your case and if eligible, will classify you into one of three classiﬁcation groups.
The invalidity classiﬁcations are Class A (incapacity of 60% or more), Class B (30%-59% incapacity)
and Class C (less than 30% incapacity). CSC will determine your percentage of incapacity in relation
to appropriate civilian employment, taking into account your condition and your formal
qualiﬁcations, experience and skills.


Death and dependants’ beneﬁt
In the case of your death whilst a MilitarySuper contributor, a preserved beneﬁt member or a
pensioner, a beneﬁt may be payable to your eligible dependants (your surviving spouse or eligible
children), or where you do not have any eligible dependants, to any ﬁnancial dependants as listed in
your will (if you have notiﬁed CSC in writing of such persons), otherwise to your estate.


Amount of invalidity beneﬁts available to you
Class A invalidity
If CSC assesses you as Class A (incapacity of 60% or more), you will be entitled to:
• a CPI–indexed pension calculated from the lump sum value of the employer beneﬁt that would
  have applied based on your ﬁnal average salary on the date of your retirement, and the beneﬁt
  multiple you would have received, had you remained contributing to MilitarySuper until your
  compulsory retiring age (CRA) for rank. This is usually age 60 unless you have a higher CRA for
   rank or you have elected for an earlier CRA; plus
• a lump sum of your member beneﬁt accrued as at 30 June 1999, if applicable—that is your own
  contributions and interest up until that time.
Your post 30 June 1999 member beneﬁt and any ancillary beneﬁt are to remain preserved in
MilitarySuper or a regulated super fund of your choice until you are eligible to claim these amounts.
The employer beneﬁt is paid as an indexed pension using the pension conversion factor of 11 (or a
higher factor if your CRA is less than 60). The appropriate conversion pension factors are listed in
Table 1. The employer beneﬁt cannot be taken as a lump sum.
For an example of the calculation used to determine the amount of Class A invalidity pension, please
refer to the Deﬁned beneﬁt member guide to ADF Medical Transition and Invalidity.




                                                                                                          2 of 10
Table 1. Pension conversion factors
  Age                Factor                                Age               Factor
 45                 14.0                                 56                 11.8

 46                 13.8                                 57                 11.6

 47                 13.6                                 58                 11.4

 48                 13.4                                 59                 11.2

 49                 13.2                                 60                 11.0

 50                 13.0                                 61                 10.8

 51                 12.8                                 62                 10.6

 52                 12.6                                 63                 10.4

 53                 12.4                                 64                 10.2

 54                 12.2                                 65                 10.0

 55                 12.0

Note that your pension conversion factor is worked out based on your age in years and days. If your
retiring age for rank is less than 55, your beneﬁt will still be projected and calculated based on a
CRA of 55.

Class B invalidity
If CSC assesses you as Class B (incapacity between 30 - 59%), you will be entitled to:
• a CPI indexed pension of the greater of either:
   o half the Class A pension; or
   o the pension calculated on your actual service up to the time of your retirement; plus
• a lump sum of your member beneﬁt as at 30 June 1999, if applicable—that is, your own
  contributions and interest up until that time.
Your post 30 June 1999 member and ancillary beneﬁt are to remain preserved in MilitarySuper
or a regulated super fund of your choice until you are eligible to claim these amounts.
The Class A pension is calculated on your eligible service, which includes a period of prospective
service to your CRA, and uses the applicable pension conversion factor. The pension based on
actual membership is calculated in the same way as a redundancy pension, using the pension
conversion factor for your age at retirement. Your employer beneﬁt cannot be taken as a lump
sum in either circumstance.
For an example of the calculation used to determine the amount of Class B invalidity pension, please
refer to the Deﬁned beneﬁt member guide to ADF Medical Transition and Invalidity.

Class C invalidity
If CSC assesses you as Class C (incapacity of less than 30%), no invalidity beneﬁts are payable to you.
Your MilitarySuper beneﬁt is the same as if you had resigned from the ADF. You will be entitled to:
• a lump sum of your member beneﬁt as at 30 June 1999 (if applicable)—that is your
  own contributions and interest up until that time.
Your post 30 June 1999 member and ancillary beneﬁts, are to remain preserved in MilitarySuper or a
regulated super fund of your choice until you are eligible to claim these amounts.




                                                                                                          3 of 10
Your employer beneﬁt, accrued to the time of your invalidity retirement, is to remain preserved in
MilitarySuper until:
• age 55, at which time you can take it all as a pension;
• from age 55 you can have it paid as a rollover to another fund where it must remain preserved
  until you reach age 60 and cease employment;
• age 55, where you elect to take a part pension (50% or greater) and the balance is paid as a
  rollover to another super fund until you reach age 60 and retire permanently from the workforce;
• you reach age 60 and cease employment at which time you can take it all as lump sum or as a
  mixture of lump sum and pension providing you convert at least 50% to pension; or
• age 65 at which time the beneﬁt must be paid to you.
Costs
Invalidity beneﬁts through MilitarySuper are provided for you at no extra cost to you and they are
available to you automatically. You cannot opt out or change your level of invalidity beneﬁts.


Classiﬁcation reviews and reclassiﬁcation
Invalidity classiﬁcation reviews
If you are initially classiﬁed as Class A or B, your invalidity beneﬁt is not guaranteed for your lifetime.
Your invalidity classiﬁcation will be subject to periodic medical reviews by CSC until you reach
age 55. As a result of these reviews, your invalidity classiﬁcation may change to reﬂect a change
in your incapacity, resulting in a change to your beneﬁt.
In addition to these periodic reviews, in the event that you consider at any time that your retiring
impairment has deteriorated and aﬀects your capacity to do the types of employment identiﬁed as
relevant to you in light of your skills, qualiﬁcations and experience, you may request CSC to review
your classiﬁcation level. If you are receiving a Class B pension or you have been re-classiﬁed as a
Class C from Class A or B, you can request a review at any time up to age 65.
If you are initially classiﬁed as Class C your classiﬁcation is not subject to review, although you do
have the opportunity to ask for reconsideration of the initial classiﬁcation, at the time you are
classiﬁed (within 30 days of receipt of the decision).

Reclassiﬁcation to Class C invalidity
If at any time your invalidity classiﬁcation is reviewed and your classiﬁcation is changed from Class A
or B to Class C, your pension will be ceased immediately. At this time, your employer beneﬁt will be
recalculated and preserved in MilitarySuper.
For an example of the calculation used in the reclassiﬁcation from Class B to C invalidity pension,
please refer to the Deﬁned beneﬁt member guide to ADF Medical Transition and Invalidity.

Reclassiﬁcation from Class A to Class B
If you are in receipt of an invalidity Class A pension, and a medical review results in a
re–classiﬁcation to Class B, your pension beneﬁt will change to reﬂect the new classiﬁcation.
A Class B pension is the greater of either:
a. half a Class A pension; or
b. the employer beneﬁt at exit divided by the applicable age factor at exit.

For an example of the calculation used in the reclassiﬁcation from Class A to B invalidity pension, please refer to
the Deﬁned beneﬁt member guide to ADF Medical Transition and Invalidity.




                                                                                                               4 of 10
Opportunities to provide further information
If a CSC case oﬃcer is going to recommend to the delegate that your classiﬁcation be downgraded
following your medical review, you will have the opportunity to provide new evidence. In line with
the principles of procedural fairness, you will be sent a copy of the recommendation and asked to
submit any additional evidence that you would like considered prior to the delegate’s decision in
relation to your invalidity classiﬁcation.
You will have 14 days from the date of receipt of the recommendation in which to provide
any additional information. Following the receipt of your response or the culmination of the
14 day period, the delegate will make a decision within ten days in relation to your invalidity
classiﬁcation. You will receive notiﬁcation of the determination within ﬁve business days of the
delegate’s decision.

Reconsideration of a decision made by a delegate of CSC
A MilitarySuper member aﬀected by a decision by CSC or a delegate of CSC may apply to CSC for
reconsideration of the decision within 30 days of receipt of the decision (or longer period that,
because of special circumstances, CSC allows). There are no associated fees for requesting
reconsideration at present.

Returning to the ADF
If you are in receipt of an invalidity pension (i.e. Class A or B) and subsequently return to the ADF,
your pension may be cancelled. If following your period of re–entry you retire on invalidity grounds
again, you will be reassessed for eligibility with regard to invalidity beneﬁts. If at the end of your
period of re–entry you do not retire on invalidity grounds, your previous invalidity pension will not
be reinstated.

Other considerations relating to invalidity beneﬁts
Surcharge debt
Any surcharge debt you may have accrued whilst a contributor must be recovered from your
MilitarySuper beneﬁts when they are paid. By default, this is achieved by reducing the MilitarySuper
pension beneﬁt that is otherwise payable. Alternatively, you can elect to have it recovered from any
lump sum beneﬁt.

Early release (Class C)
In certain circumstances, such as ﬁnancial hardship or on compassionate grounds or if incapacity
prevents you from working again, you may be able to access all or some of your preserved beneﬁt
early. Claiming all of your preserved employer beneﬁts early will prevent you from re-contributing to
MilitarySuper at a later date, or being able to be considered for retrospective invalidity beneﬁts in
the future.

Invalidity beneﬁts are not income tested
MilitarySuper invalidity pensions are not adjusted on account of other income, including
repatriation, compensation and social security payments. However, some of those payments may be
adjusted to take account of your MilitarySuper invalidity pension.

Forms required for completion
If you are medically transitioning from the ADF, refer to ADF Medical Transition and our Member
guide to ADF Medical transition.




                                                                                                         5 of 10
Death and dependants’ beneﬁts
Beneﬁts payable
The beneﬁts payable upon death vary according to whether your death occurs:
• in a period of eligible service i.e. as a contributing member; or
• as a pensioner; or
• after exit but before receiving your employer beneﬁt i.e. as a preserved beneﬁt member.

Death in service
Death beneﬁt
If you die while you are a contributing member of MilitarySuper, your eligible dependants or your
estate (if you have no eligible dependants and have not given us written notice of any person or
persons dependent on you who you have made provision for in your will) will be entitled to:
• your member beneﬁt (including any ancillary beneﬁt) payable as a lump sum; and
• your employer beneﬁt, which is calculated as the amount that would have been payable to you
  if you had retired on Class A invalidity grounds less any adjustment to recover any remaining
  surcharge debt at the time of death.
Your eligible dependants are your spouse and eligible children under the age of 18 (or 25 if they are
studying full-time).

Eligible dependants for death in service
 Spouse

                     Your spouse may take 100% of the employer beneﬁt as a lump sum. Where this option
 100% lump           is selected, the calculation of eligible children’s beneﬁts (if you have any eligible
 sum beneﬁt          children) is included in the lump sum amount. That is your entire beneﬁt is paid to your
                     spouse as a lump sum and no additional beneﬁt is payable.
 OR
                     Your spouse may wish to convert the whole employer beneﬁt to a pension.
                     In this case the rate of pension will be 67% of the Class A invalidity pension
                     (this is the eligible pension). If there are eligible children, the pension beneﬁt to your
                     spouse will be increased at the rate of 11% of the eligible pension for one child, 22% for
 50% or more
                     two children and 33% for three or more children.
 converted to
                     When the beneﬁt is taken by your spouse as a pension the amount payable to your
 a pension
                     spouse and eligible children are identiﬁed separately. This is because once your child
                     turns 18, if they don’t remain in full time study, the relevant child component of the
                     pension i.e. 11% is ceased. The child component ceases permanently once the child
                     turns 25, regardless of if they are in full time study.

In the event that there is more than one eligible surviving spouse, both of whom meet the criteria,
then your beneﬁt will be apportioned at the discretion of CSC according to ﬁnancial need. Each spouse
will have the option of taking their portion of the employer beneﬁt as a lump sum or pension or a
combination of both.




                                                                                                                6 of 10
A spouse pension is payable for the duration of your spouse’s life.
Child dependants

                            A child dependant’s beneﬁt may be payable to, or for the beneﬁt of. each eligible
                            child where no beneﬁt is payable to an eligible spouse or where the spouse later
Dependant’s pension         dies. These pension beneﬁts are payable at the rate of 45% of the Class A invalidity
                            pension for one child, 80% for two children, 90% for three children and 100% for
                            four or more children.


Financial dependents

                            Where you do not have an eligible spouse or eligible children, but where you have
                            one or more people who are ﬁnancially dependent on you and you have notiﬁed
Lump sum beneﬁt             CSC in writing to this eﬀect and you have made provision for such people or
                            person in your will, then a beneﬁt is payable as a lump sum to or for the beneﬁt of
                            such people or person.


Estate

                            In the event that there is no eligible spouse or eligible children or other ﬁnancial
Lump sum beneﬁt
                            dependents, then your death beneﬁt will be paid as a lump sum to your estate.

Death of a pensioner (other than an invalidity pensioner)
If you die whilst in receipt of a pension, your eligible spouse will receive up to 67% of the pension
that you were receiving. If you have eligible children (children under 18 or full-time students under
25), their pension entitlement will be added to your spouse’s pension at the rate of 11% for one
child, 22% for two children and 33% for three or more children.
If you are survived by eligible children but not by an eligible spouse, your eligible children receive a
pension beneﬁt equal to 45% of your pension where there is one child, 80% for two, 90% for three
and 100% for four or more children.
If all reversionary pensions cease within 10 years of your pension commencing, the total paid will be
compared against your funded employer beneﬁt to determine if any additional amounts are payable
to your estate.

Death of an invalidity pensioner
Where you are in receipt of a Class B invalidity pension at the time of your death and the cause
of your death is a result of your prescribed impairment, the pension payable to your eligible spouse
or child is calculated as if you had been in receipt of a Class A pension.
A similar provision applies where you were once in receipt of a Class A or B pension but had been
reclassiﬁed as Class C prior to your death.
If you are an invalidity pensioner without eligible dependants at the date of your death and you die
within 10 years of your pension commencing, your estate may receive a lump sum calculated on the
basis of the residual capital value of the current pension. The lump sum would be the amount of
pension that would have been paid from your date of death to ten years after your pension started,
provided the amount of pension already paid to you is less than the lump sum value of your
employer beneﬁt at retirement.
In the event of your death before invalidity pension payments have reached the capital amount
of your employer beneﬁt, and where you have no eligible dependants, any shortfall is paid to
your estate.




                                                                                                                   7 of 10
Death whilst a preserved beneﬁt member
If you have a preserved beneﬁt, having previously transitioned from the ADF, and your death occurs
prior to receiving your preserved beneﬁts then your eligible dependants will be paid your preserved
beneﬁts. Your employer beneﬁt may be paid either as a pension, a lump sum or a combination
of both. If there are no eligible dependants and you and have not notiﬁed CSC in writing of any
dependents you have provided for in your will, a lump sum of your beneﬁts will be paid to
your estate.


Eligible dependants
In MilitarySuper, an eligible spouse and children are regarded as your eligible dependants. The
eligibility requirements that need to be satisﬁed are explained below.

Eligible spouse
An eligible spouse is a person with whom you had a marital or couple relationship with at the date
of your death—the test for this is whether you had been living on a permanent and bona ﬁde
domestic basis as husband, wife or partner for a continuous period of at least three years up to the
date of your death.
Where a marital or couple relationship had existed for less than three years at the date of your
death, CSC may decide that your spouse is an eligible dependant. In coming to this decision,
CSC takes into account evidence such as whether:
• the applicant spouse was wholly or substantially dependent upon you;
• the applicant spouse was legally married to you;
• your relationship was registered under a law of a state or territory as a prescribed kind of
  relationship;
• you had a child born of the relationship, a child adopted during the relationship, or a child of
  both people within the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) (see Child’s beneﬁt section
  below for full deﬁnition); and/or
• a home which was the usual place of residence was jointly owned.
CSC may also take into account any other evidence it considers relevant.
Where you previously had a marital or couple relationship but the relationship had ended before
your death, a beneﬁt may still be payable to your former spouse if:
• at the time of death, you were still legally married; and
• the person was wholly or substantially dependent upon you at the time of your death.

Post-retirement marital or couple relationship after age 60
In the event that you begin a marital or couple relationship after you commence your pension,
after reaching age 60 and this relationship is of less than three years duration at your date of
death, a pro–rata amount of pension will be payable to your surviving spouse. In this instance, where
the pension is considered a ‘small amount’, your surviving spouse is entitled to a one-oﬀ
lump sum instead.




                                                                                                        8 of 10
Eligible child
An eligible child is a child who is under the age of 18 or a full–time student between the ages of
18 and 25 at the time of your death. From age 25, beneﬁts will no longer be payable to any children.
A child includes your step–child, adopted child, foster child, ward, ex–nuptial child or a child within
the meaning of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) or these categories of child of your eligible spouse,
who was wholly or substantially dependent upon you at the time of your death.
The meaning of child in the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth) includes children:
• born to a woman as the result of an artiﬁcial conception procedure while that woman was
  married to, or was a de facto partner of, another person (whether of the same or opposite sex);
  and
• who are children of a person because of an order of a state or territory court made under a state
  or territory law prescribed for the purposes of section 60HB of the Family Law Act 1975 (Cth),
  giving eﬀect to a surrogacy arrangement.

Full–time students between age 18 and 25 years
A child’s pension ceases when the child reaches 18 years of age unless he or she is a full–time
student. Before the pension ceases, CSC will contact the child or their guardian to ﬁnd out if the child
is a full–time student and will send the parent or guardian the appropriate form to ﬁll in.
Where the child has reached 18 years of age, the form should be completed by the child. The form
has to be signed by the principal or registrar of the educational institution attended by the child.
Also, an annual student review exercise is conducted for students aged between 18 and 25 years.
In this case CSC sends out a form each year to the parent/guardian or student to conﬁrm the
student’s ongoing eligibility for beneﬁts. The form must be completed and returned or the pension
will be suspended (until a completed form has been returned conﬁrming study), or ceased.

Tax payable on a death beneﬁt
The tax payable on a death beneﬁt depends on how the beneﬁt is paid.
An income stream will be subject to Pay As You Go (PAYG) tax, like the tax you pay on your
fortnightly salary.
A lump sum paid to an eligible dependant is not subject to tax. However, a lump sum paid to an
estate may be taxed when the estate is ﬁnalised.

Absence without leave
Unless mitigating circumstances apply, if your death occurs whilst you are AWOL and your absence is
greater than 21 consecutive days, the death beneﬁt payable to your eligible dependants beneﬁciaries
or estate will be limited to your beneﬁt based on your eligible service undertaken by you, up to the
date of your death, rather than including any prospective service.

Surcharge debt
Should your death occur while you are in service or whilst you are a preserved beneﬁt member,
any surcharge debt that may have accrued will be deducted from the death beneﬁt payable to your
eligible dependants or your estate. Please see the Superannuation contributions surcharge fact
sheet available on our website at csc.gov.au for more details.

Ancillary contributions
If, prior to your death, you made or received ancillary contributions into MilitarySuper, your ancillary
beneﬁt will be paid as a lump sum to your eligible dependants or to your estate as applicable.




                                                                                                           9 of 10
Pension indexation
All pensions are indexed twice yearly with eﬀect from the ﬁrst pension payday in January and July.
The adjustment is based on any upward movement in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the six
months ending 31 March and 30 September each year. If the CPI rises, pensions are increased. If the
CPI falls, pensions will remain the same.
Pensions that have been paid for the whole six months before a January or July adjustment are
varied by the CPI change for those six months. The ﬁrst CPI adjustment to a pension is calculated as a
proportion of the full amount, e.g. if you have been in receipt of a pension for three months the
adjustment will be half of the full CPI amount for that six month period.
CSC issues statements in January and July each year showing the pension applicable for the next six
months. Taxation information is included with the July information.


Family law
MilitarySuper death beneﬁts are subject to splitting arrangements under family law legislation. For
example, under these arrangements a portion of the beneﬁt may be paid to the spouse or de facto of
a previous marriage or relationship.
Family Court orders/agreements splitting beneﬁts can vary on a case-by-case basis and also
according to diﬀerent scenarios.
Find out more about family law and super splitting at csc.gov.au/family-law


Forms for completion
All application forms relating to death or invalidity beneﬁts can be found on the CSC website at
csc.gov.au/militarysuper


Privacy
We’re committed to protecting your privacy. We collect your personal information for the purposes
of providing superannuation services to you, improving our products and to keep you informed.
We will only share your personal information where necessary for providing superannuation services
to you.
This may include disclosing your personal information to our service providers or government or
regulatory bodies.
Your personal information may be accessed overseas by our service providers. Please see our privacy
policy for full details. Your personal information will not be otherwise used or disclosed unless
required or permitted under law.
A full copy of our privacy policy as well as the privacy complaint process is available at
csc.gov.au/privacy
