                                               Product
                                               Disclosure
                                               Statement
                                                                                   Tenth edition,
                                                                                   Issued 31 October 2025



                                                                       Contents
                                                                       1. About MilitarySuper ....................................................................... 2
                                                                       2. How super works ............................................................................ 2

                                                                       3. Beneﬁts of investing with MilitarySuper ........................................ 3

                                                                       4. Risks of super ................................................................................. 4

                                                                       5. How we invest your money ............................................................ 5

                                                                       6. Fees and costs ................................................................................ 5

                                                                       7. How super is taxed ......................................................................... 6

                                                                       8. How to open an account ................................................................ 8




Military Superannuation and Beneﬁts Scheme (MilitarySuper, or the Fund, ABN 50 925 523 120, RSE: R1000306) is a superannuation fund
for current and former Australian Defence Force members.
MilitarySuper is issued by Commonwealth Superannuation Corporation (CSC, we or us, ABN 48 882 817 243, AFSL 238069, RSEL L0001397).
To know more about us and to see other documents we have to disclose under law, csc.gov.au/militarysuper                                                              1 of 8
    Important note about this Product Disclosure Statement (PDS)
!   This PDS is a summary of signiﬁcant information and contains a number of references to important information in other documents.
    Information referred to with an exclamation mark also forms part of the PDS. You should also consider that information before
    making a decision about MilitarySuper. Other documents that are referred to in this PDS without an exclamation mark do not form
    part of this PDS.
    Any information in this PDS is general information only and does not take account of your personal ﬁnancial situation or needs.
    You should obtain ﬁnancial advice tailored to your personal circumstances.
    Information in this PDS may change from time to time. Information that is not materially averse to you may be updated on our
    website, csc.gov.au/militarysuper-pds. You can also contact us on 1300 006 727 to request a paper copy of any updated information
    at no extra cost.
    The oﬀer to which this document relates is available only to persons eligible to become a member of MilitarySuper under the
    Military Superannuation and Beneﬁts Act 1991 (Cth), receiving this document (electronically or otherwise) in Australia.

    1. About MilitarySuper
    About CSC
    We’ve spent decades growing the super of current and former Australian Government and Defence Force employees. We use our
    experience to plan and pursue a better-funded retirement for you. You can ﬁnd important information, including our Trust Deed,
    Annual Report and remuneration for executive oﬃcers, at csc.gov.au/About-CSC.

    About MilitarySuper
    MilitarySuper was established under the Military Superannuation and Beneﬁts Act 1991 (Cth), exclusively for serving members of
    the Australian Defence Force (ADF). It is a hybrid scheme, meaning it has a combination of both deﬁned beneﬁts and accumulation
    components. Membership of MilitarySuper closed to new members on 30 June 2016. However, from 1 July 2016, if you were
    previously a member of MilitarySuper and you still have an amount of your Employer Beneﬁt preserved in MilitarySuper, you will be
    required to rejoin MilitarySuper in the event that you return to the ADF through the Permanent Forces or as a continuous
    full-time Reservist.
    MilitarySuper has four investment options—Cash, Income Focused, Balanced and Aggressive. In addition to your MilitarySuper
    Retirement Beneﬁt, MilitarySuper oﬀers death and invalidity beneﬁts at no cost. For more information see Section 3. Beneﬁts of
    investing with MilitarySuper.
    From 1 July 2016, as a contributing member of MilitarySuper you can elect to opt out of MilitarySuper and join the Australian
    Defence Force Superannuation Scheme (ADF Super) or any other fund of your choice. If you choose to transfer to ADF Super, you will
    not be able to re-join MilitarySuper and your Employer Beneﬁt will remain compulsorily preserved in MilitarySuper until you are at
    least 55 and have retired from the ADF. For more information and for a copy of the ADF Super PDS and Target Market Determination
    (TMD), go to csc.gov.au/pds. You should consider the ADF Super PDS and TMD before making a decision to acquire, or continue to
    hold, an interest in ADF Super.

    2. How super works
    The government provides tax savings in relation to super. For more information, go to Section 7. How super is taxed.
    Superannuation (super) is a long-term way to save for your retirement which is, in part, compulsory and most people have the right
    to choose the superannuation entity into which their employer should direct their superannuation guarantee contributions.

    Putting money into your super
    As a MilitarySuper contributing member, you generally must contribute at least 5% of your super salary (these contributions are
    called your member contributions). You may increase your contributions up to a maximum of 10%, in multiples of 1%. You cannot
    change your rate of contributions more than once every three months. Contributions above 5% will increase your Member Beneﬁt
    but will not have any eﬀect on the corresponding employer (productivity) contributions. Whatever rate you choose, your
    contributions will be deducted automatically from your pay every fortnight.
    You may also choose to make other contributions, including additional personal contributions, salary sacriﬁce contributions and
    spouse contributions, into MilitarySuper. These additional contributions are known as ancillary contributions. If you wish to pay
    more, make other types of contributions or ﬁnd out more information, you should obtain a copy of the relevant form or factsheet
    from csc.gov.au and advise your pay oﬃce.
    Your member contributions and investment earnings on these contributions form your Member Beneﬁt. Additional personal
    contributions, salary sacriﬁce contributions, government co-contributions, low income superannuation tax oﬀset (LISTO), super
    guarantee (SG) top up payments and interest on these amounts form your Ancillary Beneﬁt. Generally speaking, the value of your
    Member and Ancillary Beneﬁt will increase with positive investment returns and decrease if there are negative investment returns.
    Your member and ancillary beneﬁts are both payable as a lump sum. You can choose to invest these contributions in the Cash,
    Income Focused, Balanced and Aggressive investment options to suit your goals and risk tolerance.
    Defence, as part of your employer contributions, pays productivity contributions at a rate of 3% of your super salary.
    These productivity contributions plus investment returns form a funded part of your Employer Beneﬁt. However, the majority of
    your Employer Beneﬁt is unfunded, and is paid by the Australian Government when your Employer Beneﬁt becomes payable. As the
    calculation of your Employer Beneﬁt when you transition out of the ADF is deﬁned by a set formula, it is unaﬀected by investment
    returns. The unfunded Employer Beneﬁt may be payable as a pension or lump sum, or combination of a pension and a lump sum.
    The total value of the Employer Beneﬁt is determined as described in Section 3. Beneﬁts of investing with MilitarySuper.
                                                                                                                             2 of 8
You need to be aware that there are limitations imposed by the ATO on the amount of contributions you can make from your before
and after tax income. You may also be entitled to various government contributions which, if paid, will form part of your Ancillary
Beneﬁt. If you are eligible, you do not need to take any action as this will be assessed by the Australian Taxation Oﬃce when you
lodge your taxation return. For eligibility requirements refer to ato.gov.au
For more information, refer to our website and the various fact sheets available relating to contributions.

Withdrawing your super
There are limitations on making withdrawals from your super. In most cases, you can only withdraw your super after reaching age 60
and permanently retiring from the workforce. However, you may be able to access your super or some component of it earlier in
some cases. There are circumstances where you meet a condition of release before reaching age 60. These include circumstances of
invalidity, ﬁnancial hardship and on compassionate grounds.
However, in MilitarySuper your Employer Beneﬁt can be paid as a non-commutable pension on or after age 55 provided you
have transitioned from the ADF—it is not subject to normal retiring conditions and it is not dependent on you reaching age 60.
For more information, refer to csc.gov.au/militarysuper.

3. Beneﬁts of investing with MilitarySuper
Investing in MilitarySuper can help to maximise your retirement savings through the following features and beneﬁts.

Competitive costs
Defence meets the cost of administering MilitarySuper, which means that no administration fees are deducted from your account.
MilitarySuper pays no commissions to ﬁnancial advisers. There are, however, some fees and charges. For more information, go to
Section 6. Fees and costs.

A Deﬁned Beneﬁt
In MilitarySuper you receive a Deﬁned Beneﬁt—the Employer Beneﬁt. As explained in Section 2. How super works of this PDS,
the calculation of your Employer Beneﬁt is not aﬀected by investment returns. Rather, it is calculated using the rates
(described below) relating to your Final Average Salary during your current period of service.
 Years of service                % of Final Average Salary (FAS) per year of service
 Less than 7 years               18%
 7 years to 20 years             23%
 20 years onward                 28%

Your Employer Beneﬁt comprises two components:
•   a funded component, which represents the 3% productivity contributions paid by Defence, plus investment returns; and
•   an unfunded component paid by the Australian Government, which is the balance of your Employer Beneﬁt.
If you transition from the ADF before you’re eligible to claim your beneﬁt, the funded and unfunded components will accrue
separately. The funded amount will be subject to investment performance in the Balanced option, whether positive or negative,
while the unfunded amount will accrue in line with the consumer price index.
Your accumulation component—the member and ancillary beneﬁts will accumulate separately from your Employer–Funded Beneﬁt.
Your member and ancillary contributions are invested by CSC and the value of your beneﬁt changes in accordance with investment
performance. The value of your Member Beneﬁt will depend on your rate of contributions (5–10%) and investment returns on these
contributions. The value of your Ancillary Beneﬁt is dependent on whether you, your employer or the government make any
additional contributions and the investment return on these contributions while they are held in the fund.

Investment choice
You can choose to invest in one or more of our four investment options—Cash, Income Focused, Balanced and Aggressive to suit
your goals and risk tolerance. For more information, go to Section 5. How we invest your money.

Safeguarding your super investment
As responsible stewards of your savings, we consider not only activities that could reduce proﬁt in the short term, but also anything
that could aﬀect your investment in the long-term. This includes any risks from poor environmental, social and governance (ESG)
practices, because these can eventually impact the value of the businesses you’re invested in, and ultimately your ﬁnal retirement
value. Read more on our website.

Death and invalidity beneﬁts
As a member of MilitarySuper, you are generally entitled to death and invalidity beneﬁts at no cost. These beneﬁts are not
insurance, but are a feature of your MilitarySuper membership —you do not need to apply to be covered.
Invalidity beneﬁts
Invalidity beneﬁts are designed to help you resettle into civilian employment if you are medically transitioned due to physical injury or
mental illness and are unable to continue to serve in the ADF. The amount you will be eligible to receive depends upon the extent of
your incapacity in relation to civilian employment.

                                                                                                                             3 of 8
    There are also certain circumstances when invalidity beneﬁts may not be payable. These include being transitioned or retired within
    two years of becoming a member due to a condition which existed on entry and which was not materially aggravated by service,
    or where the injury occurred in particular circumstances of absence without leave (AWOL) or where CSC is of the opinion that your
    injury was sustained due to an intentional act.

    Death beneﬁts
    Similarly, payments to eligible dependants can be aﬀected if death occurs while a member is AWOL. You should note that
    MilitarySuper does not provide for binding death nominations. Upon death, beneﬁts are payable to an eligible spouse, child or
    children as per the scheme rules. This includes same sex spouses and children under the age of 18 years or full-time students up to
    the age of 25. If there are no eligible dependants, the member, ancillary and employer beneﬁts due to you, may be paid to someone
    you have noted in your will provided you have notiﬁed CSC of this in writing, otherwise your beneﬁts will be paid to your estate. You
    should not assume that because you regard a person as a dependant they will qualify for a beneﬁt in the event of your death. You
    should familiarise yourself with the eligibility criteria available on our website, csc.gov.au.
    You should read the important information about death and invalidity beneﬁts before making a decision. Go to the Death and
!   invalidity beneﬁts booklet available at csc.gov.au/militarysuper-pds. The material relating to death and invalidity beneﬁts may
    change between the time when you read this statement and the day when you acquire the product.

    4. Risks of super
    Super, like any investment, has risks. The accumulation components (member and ancillary beneﬁts) of your super will be invested
    in investment options which have exposure to a range of asset classes with diﬀerent weightings and diﬀerent risk levels. You should
    consider that your age, how long you will invest your super, if you have other investments and your risk appetite will impact how you
    invest your super. You should feel comfortable with the potential risks and ﬂuctuations associated with the investment option(s) you
    choose, and conﬁdent that your decisions will support your personal objectives, ﬁnancial situation and needs—from now through
    to retirement.
    MilitarySuper investment options carry varying levels of risk and return. The likely investment return and the risk of losing money
    are diﬀerent for each investment option. Investment options are made up of assets with diﬀerent weightings and risk levels. Assets
    with the potential for higher returns over the longer term (like shares) may also have higher risk of losing value over the short term.
    While it’d be great to eliminate risk, that’s not possible because some risks remain even in a diversiﬁed portfolio. Instead, they need
    to be managed. No matter how skilled the investment manager or how strong past performance is, future returns are likely to diﬀer
    from past returns, as economic and market conditions change. We can’t guarantee returns and there’s a chance you could lose some
    of your money. There is also a risk that your total super beneﬁt may not be enough to adequately fund your retirement,
    for example, if your retirement coincides with a major market correction. Our role is to apply our rigorous and disciplined process to
    identify and manage potential risks to your super savings, to reduce the likelihood of that outcome. Here are the signiﬁcant super
    risks you should know about.


     Risk                        Description
     Asset investment risk      Individual assets we buy can change in value for many reasons; e.g. there may be changes in the internal
                                operations or management of a fund or company we invest in, or in its business environment.
     Counterparty risk          If another party to a contract can’t meet its obligations under the contract, this may have a negative eﬀect on
                                the value of the investments in the fund.

     Currency risk              When we invest in other countries, if their currencies change in value relative to the Australian dollar, the value
                                of the investment can change.
     Derivatives risk           A derivative is a contract with an agreed ﬁnancial value, and that value is derived from anticipated
                                ﬂuctuations to the underlying asset (market or index) that is the subject of the contract. It’s used to reduce
                                risk or gain exposure to investment markets when we think it’s appropriate.
                                Risks associated with derivatives include the value of the derivative failing to move in line with the value of
                                the underlying asset, market or index.
     Environmental, social      CSC considers relevant environmental, social and governance risks in making decisions consistent with its
     and governance risks       investment objective to maximise long-term returns for customers. For more information on our approach
                                to ESG issues see csc.gov.au/db-esg
     Fund risk                  There are certain events that we classify as CSC fund risks. These include if CSC should stop operating, if fraud
                                occurs against us, if our board is restructured and/or if our investment professionals change.
     Inﬂation risk              There is a risk that inﬂation may exceed the return on an investment.
     Interest rate risk         Changes in interest rates can have a positive or negative eﬀect, directly or indirectly on investment value or
                                returns.
     Liquidity risk             Assets that we invest in may become diﬃcult to trade under certain market conditions.

     Market risk                Market sentiment can change, as can economic, technological, political or legal conditions, all of which aﬀect
                                the value of investments.
     Super and tax law          Super and tax laws change frequently and this may aﬀect the value of your investment and your ability to
     risk*                      access it. For example, changes made may aﬀect the tax you pay on your super.
    * These risks also apply to the Deﬁned Beneﬁt component of MilitarySuper.


                                                                                                                                   4 of 8
      If you need help to understand investment risk or to work out which investment option(s) to choose, contact an authorised ﬁnancial
!     planner. You should read the important information about risks of super before making a decision. Go to the Investment options and
      risk booklet available at csc.gov.au/militarysuper-pds to understand CSC’s general approach to investment options and risk and go to
      csc.gov.au/db-esg for more information about CSC’s approach to environmental, social and governance risks. The material relating to
      these risks may change between the time when you read this statement and the day when you acquire the product.

      5. How we invest your money
      MilitarySuper oﬀers you four investment options —Cash, Income Focused, Balanced and Aggressive and you can switch investment
      options. You can choose diﬀerent options for your existing member account balance and your future member and ancillary
      contributions. You can change your investment options online or by completing a Member Investment Choice form available on our
      website or by logging in to CSC Navigator.
      When choosing an investment option you must consider the:
      • amount of time your money will be invested before you need it for retirement;
      • likely investment returns; and
      • level of risk and ﬂuctuation in the value of your investment that you can tolerate.

      Balanced–our default option
      If you do not choose an investment option, we will invest your member and ancillary contributions in the default option, Balanced.
      Objective: To outperform the Consumer Price Index (CPI) by 3.5% per annum, after fees and taxes, over 10 years.
      Risk proﬁle—high: This investment option is intended for those investors prepared to take more risk in exchange for potentially
      higher returns on their investment over the medium-to-long term. The minimum suggested timeframe for holding this option is 10
      years. With a high risk rating (band six), it is estimated that the option will have a negative return (i.e. will lose value) in four to less
      than six years over any 20 year period.
      Target asset allocation1: The Balanced option invests in the asset classes shown in the diagram below. The diagram shows the
      investment allocation percentage by asset class as at 31 October 2025.


                                                   Cash 13% (0-65%)                              Before making a decision, you should read
                                                   Fixed interest 12.5% (0-65%)
                                                                                             !   the important information about how we
                                                                                                 invest your money and how to make and
                                                   Equities 58% (15-75%)
                                                                                                 switch investment options (go to the
                                                   Property 3.5% (0-25%)                         Investment options and risk booklet on our
                                                   Infrastructure 7.5% (0-25%)                   website). You should also read the
                                                                                                 important information about the extent to
                                                   Alternatives 5.5% (0-30%)
                                                                                                 which we consider environmental, social
      1 Investment information is current at the date of publication and may change from
                                                                                                 and governance (ESG) matters for the
                                                                                                 purpose of achieving our investment
      time to time. See csc.gov.au/militarysuper-asset-allocation for updated information.
      Investment returns aren’t guaranteed.                                                      objective (go to csc.gov.au/db-esg). This
                                                                                                 material may change between the time
                                                                                                 when you read this Statement and the day
                                                                                                 when you acquire the product.
      6. Fees and costs

* Did  you know?
  Small differences in both investment performance and fees and costs can have a substantial impact on your long-term returns.
      For example, total annual fees and costs of 2% of your account balance rather than 1% could reduce your final return by up to
      20% over a 30-year period (for example, reduce it from $100 000 to $80 000)*.
      You should consider whether features such as superior investment performance or the provision of better member services justify
      higher fees and costs.
      You or your employer, as applicable, may be able to negotiate to pay lower fees**. Ask the fund or your financial adviser.
      To find out more
      If you would like to find out more, or see the impact of the fees based on your own circumstances, the Australian Securities and
      Investments Commission (ASIC) Moneysmart website (www.moneysmart.gov.au) has a superannuation calculator to help you check
      out different fee options***.

      * We are required by law to provide you with this information. MilitarySuper members should note that this is only relevant for
      the Member and Ancillary Benefit of your MilitarySuper benefit. For DFRDB members with ancillary benefits held in MilitarySuper, this information is
      only relevant to your Ancillary Benefit.
      ** We are required by law to provide you with this information, however lower fees cannot be negotiated with CSC.
      *** The calculator on the ASIC website can be used to calculate the effect of fees and costs on account balances.




                                                                                                                                              5 of 8
    You should read the important information about fees and costs before making a decision. Go to the Your MilitarySuper fees and
!   costs booklet available at csc.gov.au/militarysuper-pds
    The material relating to fees and costs may change between the time when you read this Statement and the day when you acquire
    the product.

    Fees and Costs Summary
    The main fees that apply to the MilitarySuper Balanced are listed below. The information in this table can be used to compare our
    fees with similar funds. Deﬁnitions of fees and costs can be found in the ‘Deﬁned fees’ section of the Your MilitarySuper fees and
    costs booklet available at csc.gov.au/militarysuper-pds
     MilitarySuper Balanced
     Type of fee or cost        Amount                         How and when paid
     Ongoing annual fees and costs1
     Administration             Nil                            As a MilitarySuper member you do not pay any administration, switching or
     fees and costs                                            any other ongoing administration fees as the Department of Defence meets
                                                               all administration costs.
     Investment fees            0.66% (est.)                   • Not deducted directly from your account.
     and costs2, 3                                             • Paid from or reduces the amount of investment returns or assets related
                                                                 to each investment option.
                                                               • Reﬂected in the unit price of each investment option, which is published
                                                                 each business day.
     Transaction costs2         0.08% (est.)                   • Not deducted directly from your account.
                                                               • Paid from or reduces the amount of investment returns or assets related
                                                                 to each investment option.
                                                               • Reﬂected in the unit price of each investment option, which is published
                                                                 each business day.
     Member activity related fees and costs
      Buy–sell spread           Nil
      Switching fee             Nil
     Other fees                 Where these fees and costs are applied to your account, they are deducted as described in the
!    and costs                  `Additional explanation of fees and costs' in the Your MilitarySuper fees and costs booklet.

    1 If your account balance for a product oﬀered by the superannuation entity is less than $6 000 at the end of the entity’s income year, certain fees

    and costs charged to you in relation to administration and investment are capped at 3% of the account balance. Any amount charged in excess of
    that cap must be refunded.
    2 These costs are based on the 2024–25 ﬁnancial year and are rounded to the nearest two decimal places. The actual amount will change from year

    to year and may be diﬀerent to the amounts shown. The calculation basis for this amount is set out under ‘Additional Explanation of Fees and Costs’
    in the Your MilitarySuper fees and costs booklet available on our website
    3 Investment fees and costs include an amount of 0.23% for performance fees.



    Changes to fees and costs
    We may change fees and costs from time to time. We will let you know of any fee change that we believe will materially aﬀect you,
    at least 30 days before the change takes eﬀect. Fees and costs can be changed without a member's consent.

    Example of annual fees and costs for a superannuation product
    This table gives an example of how the ongoing annual fees and costs for the Balanced option for this
    superannuation product can aﬀect your superannuation investment over a 1 year period. You should use this
    table to compare this superannuation product with other superannuation products.
      Example – Balanced                                     Balance of $50,000

      Administration fees              $0                    For every $50,000 you have in the superannuation product, you will be
      and costs                                              charged or have deducted from your investment $0 in administration fees
                                                             and costs.
      PLUS                             0.66% (est.)          And, you will be charged or have deducted from your investment $330 in
      Investment fees and costs                              investment fees and costs.

      PLUS                             0.08% (est.)          And, you will be charged or have deducted from your investment $40 in
      Transaction costs                                      transaction costs.

      EQUALS                                                 If your balance was $50,000 at the beginning of the year, then for that year
      Cost of product                                        you will be charged fees and costs of $370 for the superannuation product.
    Additional fees may apply. This example is illustrative only.

    The material relating to Fees and costs may change between the time when you read this Statement and the day when you acquire
!   the product.


                                                                                                                                                6 of 8
    7. How super is taxed
    Right now super is taxed in three ways, and we outline some of the main scenarios that apply in the table below:
    • When contributions are made to your super, before and after tax.
    •     When you withdraw super, or we pay a beneﬁt when you die.
    •     When an investment return is added to your super balance.
        Transaction type            Scenario                                      Rate of tax (2025-26 ﬁnancial year)
        After-tax                   Includes personal contributions from          • 0% on amounts up to $120,000 a year (which is the
        (non-concessional)          money that’s already been taxed and           non-concessional contribution cap) as long as your
        contributions               spouse contributions.                         account balance is less than $2.0m.
                                                                                  • 47% (including the Medicare levy) on amounts more
                                                                                  than $120,000 a year.
                                                                                  • Exceptions may apply to customers who meet age
                                                                                  eligibility rules and the requirements of the ‘three year bring
                                                                                  forward rule’. See the ATO website for more information.
        Before-tax                  Includes productivity contributions           • Generally 15% on amounts up to $30,000 (which is
        (concessional)              paid by Defence and salary                    the concessional contribution cap)
        contributions               sacriﬁce contributions.                       • Your highest marginal tax rate on amounts more
                                                                                  than $30,000
        Transfers from other        You transfer super from another fund          • 0% on already taxed amounts.
        funds to MilitarySuper      to MilitarySuper.                             • 15% on transfers from untaxed sources.
        Withdrawals                 A withdrawal is paid to you as a lump         Diﬀerent rates of taxation will apply depending on your age
                                    sum or as a pension.                          and the tax components of your beneﬁt. Go to the Tax and
                                                                                  your MilitarySuper booklet for detailed information.
        Investment earnings         Tax on your MilitarySuper account’s           Up to 15%
                                    investment earnings are deducted
                                    from the Fund and reﬂected in the
                                    unit price.

    You should read the important information about tax and your super before making a decision. Go to the Tax and your MilitarySuper
!   booklet available at csc.gov.au/militarysuper-pds. The material relating to tax may change between the time when you read this
    Statement and the day when you acquire the product.

    As a MilitarySuper customer you have access to CSC’s authorised ﬁnancial planners* who provide personalised fee-for-service
    ﬁnancial advice, that takes your objectives, ﬁnancial situation and needs into account. A summary and ﬁxed quote for the
    comprehensive advice and service you receive will be outlined to you before commencing work on your ﬁnancial plan and is subject
    to your agreement. If you already have your own ﬁnancial planner, we recommend that you speak to them ﬁrst. At CSC we don’t pay
    any commissions to ﬁnancial planners and there are no hidden fees. For further information visit csc.gov.au/ﬁnancial-planning, or to
    arrange an appointment call 1300 277 777.

    * Our authorised ﬁnancial planners are authorised to provide advice by Guideway Financial Services (ABN 46 156 498 538, AFSL 420367).
    Guideway is a licensed ﬁnancial services business providing CSC ﬁnancial planners with support to provide customers with specialist advice,
    education and strategies.




    Your tax ﬁle number (TFN)
    While you don’t have to give us your TFN, giving it to us means you may pay less tax—and that’s good for your account balance.
    Under the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (Cth), we’re authorised to collect, use and disclose your tax ﬁle number
    (TFN). We only use your TFN for approved, legislative reasons, which include:
    •     telling the ATO so they can validate your TFN, tax and super co-contributions; and
    •     using it to search for and consolidate your super beneﬁts that might be held in various accounts.
    If we have your TFN, we’ll be able to process all permitted contribution types to your MilitarySuper account, and you won’t
    have to pay more tax than you need to. If we have not received your TFN within 30 days of your entry or re-entry into the ADF,
    your contributions must be returned. In the even that you become eligible for a beneﬁt and we do not have a record of your TFN, we
    will be required to deduct tax at a higher rate.
    There are tax consequences if you make contributions over the contribution caps, and you should supply your TFN as part of
!   investing in MilitarySuper.



                                                                                                                                             7 of 8
8. How to open an account
MilitarySuper closed to new members on 30 June 2016. Eligibility to join MilitarySuper is determined by the Military Superannuation
and Beneﬁts Act 1991 (Cth) and the rules governing MilitarySuper. However, if you are a MilitarySuper member with Preserved
Employer Beneﬁt and you return to an eligible period of continuous service, you will be required to rejoin MilitarySuper as a
contributing Member. To ensure you are placed in the correct fund, you will need to contact Defence.
If you are a DFRDB contributing member wishing to make additional contributions into MilitarySuper, you will automatically be set
up with a MilitarySuper ancillary account.
An associate membership in MilitarySuper may also be opened as a result of a family law split in MilitarySuper, or where a DFRDB
contributor goes through a family law split.

Here’s how we’ll communicate with you
To make sure you get important information quickly and cost eﬀectively, we’ll communicate with you by email or text as the ﬁrst
option—unless you ask us not to. You can set up (and update) your communication preferences through the CSC Navigator or by
calling 1300 006 727 or emailing members.adf@contact.csc.gov.au. When it comes to sending you important information, we’ll
check your preference. If electronic delivery’s OK with you and we have your email address, we’ll email you the information. If email
communication fails or you’ve told us you’d prefer hardcopy mail, then we’ll send the paper communication to your mailing address.

If you need to make a complaint
We’re keen to work out any issues early, so call us right away on 1300 006 727 if you have a complaint. If you’re not satisﬁed with
how we handle it, please ask to speak to a supervisor. After that, if you still feel the issue is unresolved, ask to speak to the Customer
Care Oﬃcer, call them on 1300 033 732 or email customer.care@csc.gov.au or send a letter to the address shown below.
If you’re not satisﬁed with the response or have not received a response from the Complaints Oﬃcer within 45 days, you can contact
the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA) online, by email (info@afca.org.au), by phone (1800 931 678
free call) or in writing (Australian Financial Complaints Authority, GPO Box 3, Melbourne VIC 3001).

We’re committed to protecting your privacy
We collect your personal information to provide super services to you, to improve our products and to keep you informed. We will
only disclose your personal information in accordance with our privacy policy. Please see the full copy of our privacy policy and
privacy complaint process on our website.
