                                                                                                     Taxation Ruling

                                                                                         TR 2008/1
                                Page status: legally binding                                             Page 1 of 47




                                Taxation Ruling
                                Income tax: application of Part IVA of the
                                Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 to
                                ‘wash sale’ arrangements

Contents                 Para          This publication provides you with the following level of
                                       protection:
LEGALLY BINDING
SECTION:                        This publication (excluding appendixes) is a public ruling for the purposes of
                                the Taxation Administration Act 1953.
What this Ruling is about 1
                                A public ruling is an expression of the Commissioner’s opinion about the way
Ruling                      9   in which a relevant provision applies, or would apply, to entities generally or
                                to a class of entities in relation to a particular scheme or a class of schemes.
Examples                  18
                                If you rely on this ruling, we must apply the law to you in the way set out in
Date of effect            68
                                the ruling (unless we are satisfied that the ruling is incorrect and
Previous Rulings          69    disadvantages you, in which case we may apply the law in a way that is
                                more favourable for you – provided we are not prevented from doing so by a
NOT LEGALLY BINDING
                                time limit imposed by the law). You will be protected from having to pay any
SECTION:
                                underpaid tax, penalty or interest in respect of the matters covered by this
Appendix 1:                     ruling if it turns out that it does not correctly state how the relevant provision
                                applies to you.
Explanation               70
Appendix 2:
Detailed contents list   146    What this Ruling is about
                                1.     This Ruling considers the circumstances in which Part IVA of
                                the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936)1 might apply to
                                ‘wash sale’ arrangements.


                                Class of entity/arrangement
                                2.      The term wash sale does not have any precise meaning. In
                                commerce the term wash sale is used to describe the sale and
                                purchase of the same, or substantially the same, asset within a short
                                period of time of each other. The sale and purchase cancel each
                                other out with the result that there is effectively no change in the
                                economic exposure of the owner to the asset. More generally, the
                                expression wash sale is used to describe arrangements where a
                                disposition of an asset occurs without an intention of ceasing to hold
                                an economic exposure to the asset. In this Ruling, however, the
                                Commissioner is concerned with arrangements which have the effect
                                of causing a disposition to happen which enables a taxpayer to incur
                                a loss to offset against a gain already derived, or expected to be
                                derived, in certain circumstances. These being where owing to the
                                manner, substance and timing of the events it may be questioned

                                1
                                    All subsequent legislative references are to the ITAA 1936 unless otherwise
                                    indicated.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 2 of 47                                     Page status: legally binding



whether the loss making event is mainly to be explained by reference
to the purpose of obtaining a tax benefit from the loss.
3.      This Ruling is, therefore, concerned with arrangements under
which a taxpayer disposes of, or otherwise deals with, a capital gains
tax (CGT) asset (the asset) where in substance there is no significant
change in the taxpayer’s economic exposure to, or interest in, the
asset, or where that exposure or interest may be reinstated by the
taxpayer (a wash sale), in order to apply a resulting capital loss or
allowable deduction against a capital gain or assessable income
already derived or expected to be derived.
4.      Examples of wash sales where Part IVA might be in question
for the purposes of this Ruling include the following. In each of the
examples below the taxpayer disposes of or deals with the asset so
that a CGT event happens and a capital loss or an allowable
deduction is incurred (whichever is relevant). For instance, by selling
the asset (CGT event A1)2, by creating a trust over the asset by
settlement or declaration (CGT event E1)3, or by transferring a CGT
asset to a trust (CGT event E2).4
        (a)       the taxpayer disposes of, or deals with, the asset and
                  at the same time, or within a short period after,
                  acquires the same or substantially the same asset;
        (b)       shortly prior to, or at the time of, disposing of, or
                  dealing with, the asset the taxpayer acquires the same,
                  or substantially the same, asset;
        (c)       shortly prior to, at the time of, or shortly after disposing
                  of or dealing with the asset the taxpayer enters into an
                  arrangement to acquire the same, or substantially the
                  same, asset at a future point in time at a price that is
                  substantially the same as the sale proceeds received
                  on disposal of the original asset and acquires that
                  asset under the arrangement;
        (d)       shortly prior to, at the time of, or shortly after disposing
                  of, or dealing with, the asset the taxpayer enters into
                  derivatives or financial instruments that substantially
                  provide continued exposure to the risks and
                  opportunities of the asset, as if the taxpayer had
                  continued to hold the asset;
        (e)       shortly prior to, at the time of, or shortly after disposing
                  of, or dealing with, the asset the taxpayer enters into
                  arrangements under which the taxpayer is entitled to,
                  relative to the taxpayer’s prior interest, the future
                  income produced by the asset and/or any capital
                  appreciation in the asset, or to a reimbursement for
                  any future income produced by, or capital appreciation
                  in the asset;
2
  Section 104-10 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (ITAA 1997).
3
  Section 104-55 of the ITAA 1997.
4
  Section 104-60 of the ITAA 1997
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                              TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                                Page 3 of 47



       (f)     the taxpayer disposes of or deals with the asset to a
               company which the taxpayer is a member of, or to a
               trustee of a trust the taxpayer is a beneficiary or an
               object of, and the taxpayer controls or influences the
               company or trustee, or is the trustee or appointor;
       (g)     the taxpayer disposes of or deals with the asset to a
               company which the taxpayer controls or has influence
               over but is not a member of, or to a trustee of a trust
               which the taxpayer controls or has influence over or is
               the trustee, or appointor of, but is not a beneficiary or
               an object of. The financial benefits of the asset are not
               distributed to the members or beneficiaries/objects but
               rather the company or trustee disposes of the asset to
               the taxpayer or enters into arrangements to provide the
               financial benefits of the asset to the taxpayer;
       (h)     the taxpayer disposes of the asset or otherwise deals
               with the asset in circumstances where there is a
               significant overlap in the individuals who had direct or
               indirect interests in the asset before and after the
               disposal or dealing. For example, the asset is
               transferred from one wholly owned company to
               another, or between two trusts with the same trustee
               and class of beneficiaries or objects; or
       (i)     the taxpayer disposes of the asset to family members
               and an arrangement or understanding exists between
               the parties to the effect that the asset will be
               re-acquired by the taxpayer, the future income
               produced by the asset and/or any capital appreciation
               in the asset will be provided to the taxpayer or applied
               for the benefit of the taxpayer, or there is otherwise no
               change in how the financial benefits produced by the
               asset are utilised by the taxpayer when compared to
               what occurred prior to the disposal.
5.      An arrangement that achieves similar economic and tax
effects through the use of similar techniques to those set out above
may also be a wash sale for present purposes and therefore the
subject of this Ruling.
6.       An asset is substantially the same as the asset disposed of or
dealt with if it is economically equivalent to, or fungible with, the
original asset. An asset is also substantially the same as the original
asset if there are immaterial differences between the two assets, such
that in substance the assets are economically equivalent. Where a
taxpayer disposes of shares in one company, and purchases shares
in a competitor company that carries on a similar business, the
shares in the two companies do not constitute substantially the same
assets. There are material differences between the shares in two
different companies, even if those companies operate in the same
industry, such as scope or size of business, market performance, and
returns.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 4 of 47                                           Page status: legally binding



7.      The taxation benefit commonly obtained in connection with a
wash sale is a capital loss. For this reason, this Ruling focuses on
arrangements which realise a capital loss. However, a taxpayer may
obtain an allowable deduction in connection with a wash sale if the
asset is held on revenue account.
8.     The class of persons to which this Ruling applies are all
taxpayers that obtain a taxation benefit in the form of:
           (i)      a capital loss; or
           (ii)     an allowable deduction,
in connection with a wash sale.



Ruling
9.     If Part IVA applies to a wash sale the Commissioner may make
a determination to cancel tax benefits obtained in connection with it.
The application of Part IVA to any particular wash sale arrangement
depends on a careful weighing of all the relevant circumstances of the
arrangement and the relative weight that should be attached to each of
those circumstances. Therefore, in the absence of all relevant
information, it is not possible to state definitively whether a particular
wash sale scheme will attract Part IVA.
10.     The scheme under section 177A would consist of the steps taken
to effect the wash sale. Examples of the ways in which the scheme may
be carried out are described in paragraph 4 of this Ruling. The scheme
would broadly consist of those steps taken to dispose of or deal with the
asset so that a capital loss or allowable deduction is incurred; those
steps taken to continue the taxpayer’s economic exposure to, or interest
in, the asset, or substantially the same asset, or enable the taxpayer to
reinstate that exposure or interest; and the application of that capital loss
or allowable deduction against a capital gain or assessable income,
whether in that income year or a following income year.
11.     Where a capital loss is incurred in connection with the wash
sale and the counterfactual5 is established in the circumstances of the
case, the taxpayer obtains a tax benefit in connection with the scheme
under paragraph 177C(1)(ba). The counterfactual is that the taxpayer
would not have disposed of or otherwise dealt with the asset but would,
or could, be expected to have continued to beneficially own, or have an
interest in, the asset during that income year. The objective features of
the scheme, for instance that under the scheme the taxpayer acquires
the same asset, or substantially the same asset, continues to enjoy the
financial benefits of the asset or there is otherwise no significant
change in the taxpayer’s economic exposure to, or interest in, the
asset indicate that this is the relevant counterfactual. Thus, but for the
scheme, a capital loss would not have been, or might reasonably be
expected not to have been, incurred by the taxpayer.

5
    The term counterfactual is explained in paragraph 75 of this Ruling.
                                                           Taxation Ruling

                                                TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                                  Page 5 of 47



12.     For the same reasons, where an allowable deduction is
obtained in connection with the wash sale and the counterfactual is
established in the circumstances of the case, the taxpayer obtains a
tax benefit in connection with the scheme under
paragraph 177C(1)(b).
13.     Whether section 177D is satisfied depends on all the facts and
circumstances. However, if the following general observations are
applicable to the wash sale it may be reasonable to conclude, having
regard to the matters set out in section 177D, that the taxpayer or one
of the persons who entered into or carried out the scheme did so for
the sole, or dominant, purpose of enabling the taxpayer to obtain the
tax benefit:
       (a)     The manner in which the scheme is carried out is not
               ordinary, is complicated or artificial or is explicable only
               by reference to the tax benefit obtained, when
               compared to the manner in which a disposal of an
               asset to a third party is usually effected or to what
               would have been expected had the counterfactual
               occurred. Under the relevant counterfactual the
               taxpayer continues to beneficially own or have an
               interest in the asset and is not required to do anything
               to the asset in order to ensure their continuing
               beneficial ownership or interest. In contrast, under the
               scheme the taxpayer enters into transactions which
               effectively cancel each other, or otherwise provide the
               taxpayer with continued economic exposure to the
               asset, in order to achieve the same result as the
               counterfactual but produce no benefit other than the
               tax benefit.
       (b)     The form of the scheme is the disposal of, or otherwise
               ending of, the taxpayer’s beneficial ownership of or
               interest in, the asset. The substance of the scheme is
               that the taxpayer continues to economically own or
               benefit from the same or substantially the same asset,
               while creating a capital loss or allowable deduction for
               tax purposes. The substance of the scheme is that the
               taxpayer is left in materially the same economic
               position with respect to the asset as they were in prior
               to the scheme.
       (c)     The period over which the scheme is carried out is
               short, and the time at which the scheme was entered
               into is proximate to the derivation of a capital gain or
               assessable income, or the end of the income year.
               Further, the timing of the scheme is not proximate to
               any events that explain the disposal as being for
               ordinary business or family reasons.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 6 of 47                                   Page status: legally binding



       (d)        The result achieved by the scheme is the incurrence of
                  a capital loss, and thus a reduction in income tax
                  payable on any capital gains made by the taxpayer or
                  the incurrence of an allowable deduction and, thus, a
                  reduction in the income tax payable by the taxpayer,
                  whether in that income year or a subsequent income
                  year.
       (e)        With the exception of transaction costs associated with
                  the scheme and the increase in the taxpayer’s financial
                  resources by reason of not having to pay tax, the
                  taxpayer’s financial position remained essentially
                  unchanged, or if it did change is offset by an inverse
                  financial change of an associate.
       (f)        If the asset is disposed of, or dealt with to an
                  associate, the financial position of the associate
                  remained essentially unchanged, or if it did change, is
                  offset by an inverse financial change of the taxpayer.
       (g)        The taxpayer does not forego further increases in the
                  value of the asset disposed of, or any income
                  produced by it, or continues to otherwise enjoy the
                  financial benefits of the asset such that the person to
                  whom it is disposed of does not benefit in substance
                  from their ownership of, or interest in, the asset.
       (h)        The persons to whom the taxpayer disposes of the
                  asset or with whom the taxpayer deals with in
                  implementing the scheme are controlled or influenced
                  by the taxpayer, or have a family connection to the
                  taxpayer.
14.     The Commissioner is therefore likely in these circumstances
to exercise his powers under subsection 177F(1) to cancel the tax
benefit and determine that the whole or part of the capital loss or
allowable deduction, whichever relevant, was not incurred by the
taxpayer during the income year.
15.     However, if the taxpayer disposes of, or deals with, the asset
to an associate and the associate benefits in substance from the
asset, or there are demonstrable non-tax advantages or objects,
whether of a business or family nature, secured under the scheme,
subject to the other factors, this would tend against the conclusion as
to the dominant purpose such that Part IVA might be expected not to
apply. By benefit in substance what is meant is that as a result of the
disposal or dealing there has been a real change in how the financial
benefits produced by the asset are utilised such that they are no
longer utilised by the taxpayer and their dependents but are now
substantially utilised by the associate.
                                                        Taxation Ruling

                                             TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                               Page 7 of 47



16.      If the asset disposed of or dealt with to an associate is
worthless or near worthless, the associate is unlikely to financially
benefit from it by virtue of its worthlessness, and this would suggest,
subject to the other factors, that the dominant purpose of the scheme
was to enable the taxpayer to incur a capital loss or allowable
deduction. If the taxpayer has offset the capital loss or allowable
deduction against capital gains or assessable income, and obtained a
large and immediate financial advantage by reason of not having paid
tax in the income year of disposal, this may outweigh any uncertain,
and in some cases highly unlikely, chance of an improvement in the
asset in the future that the associate may benefit from.
17.      Where the Commissioner has determined that the whole or
part of the capital loss or allowable deduction, whichever relevant,
was not incurred by the taxpayer during the income year, he may, if in
his opinion it is fair and reasonable, make another determination
under subsection 177F(3), adjusting the taxation situation of any
taxpayer. This determination is known as a ‘compensating
adjustment’. Whether a compensating adjustment can, and should,
be made in respect of a wash sale needs to be considered on the
facts of each case and the requirements of subsection 177F(3) must
be satisfied. The Commissioner will only be in a position to determine
whether it is fair and reasonable that such an adjustment be made
when the application of Part IVA is established.



Examples
Example 1: concurrent disposal and acquisition
18.     Catherine owns a large share portfolio and land as a
consequence of being named a beneficiary of her grandfather’s
estate in the year ended 30 June 2001. Acting on professional
financial advice from Simon, Catherine sells the land on 18 May 2007
and makes a capital gain of $50,000 in the year ended 30 June 2007.
That same day, Catherine discusses with Simon her impending
income tax liability.
19.     Simon reviews Catherine’s share portfolio and notes that she
holds 100,000 shares in Beta Communications Ltd (Beta), a listed
public company. Beta is currently trading at 51 cents per share.
Catherine’s reduced cost base for her Beta shares is $1.00 per share.
Simon advises Catherine that she is currently holding unrealised
losses of $49,000 in Beta and proposes a strategy to realise those
losses whilst allowing her to maintain her interest in Beta.
20.    Catherine acts on this advice and on 20 May 2007 Simon, on
Catherine’s behalf, instructs an arm’s length stockbroker to undertake
concurrent and contingent sell and buy contracts (that is, to sell all
Catherine’s existing Beta shares prior to purchasing any new ones)
on the Beta stock. Under this arrangement, on the same day
Catherine sells 100,000 Beta shares for 51 cents each and then buys
100,000 shares in Beta at a price of 51 cents each. The sale and
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 8 of 47                                  Page status: legally binding



purchase are not referable to any contemporaneous change in the
performance of Beta or any other matters that might cause a
reasonable investor to change their view regarding the stock.
21.     Simon charges Catherine $1,000 for transaction costs
associated with the concurrent and contingent buy and sell
arrangement. CGT event A1 happens upon the sale of the shares.
Catherine’s capital proceeds from the transaction are $51,000, and her
reduced cost base is $101,000 (including the $1,000 transaction
costs), giving her a capital loss of $50,000. Catherine offsets the
capital loss against the $50,000 capital gain when preparing her
income tax return for the year ended 30 June 2007.
22.      The scheme, for the purposes of subsection 177A(1), includes
all the steps leading to, the entering into, and the implementation of,
the sell and buy transactions, the incurrence of the capital loss and
the offsetting of the $50,000 capital loss against the $50,000 capital
gain by Catherine.
23.      The objective circumstances of the scheme, in particular the
offsetting nature of the transactions, indicate that the relevant
counterfactual is that there would have been no change in Catherine’s
beneficial ownership of the Beta shares. As the scheme had no effect or
outcome on Catherine’s economic exposure to the stock it is reasonable
to conclude that nothing would have happened if the scheme had not
been entered into or carried out. Thus, for the purposes of
paragraph 177C(1)(ba), the tax benefit obtained by Catherine is the
capital loss of $50,000 incurred during the 2006-2007 income year.
24.       Section 177D provides that Part IVA applies to a scheme in
connection with which the taxpayer has obtained a tax benefit if, after
having regard to the eight specified factors, it would be concluded
that a person who entered into or carried out the scheme, or any part
of it, did so for the purpose of enabling the taxpayer to obtain the tax
benefit. Having regard to the eight specified factors:
       •          The manner in which the scheme was entered into or
                  carried out (subparagraph 177D(b)(i)) is not consistent
                  with the way a normal investor holds and realises
                  investments. Ordinarily, an investor would not sell
                  shares in a company and immediately apply the
                  proceeds of sale to acquire the same number of shares
                  in the same company. The manner in which the
                  scheme was conducted, when compared to the
                  relevant counterfactual, points to the conclusion that
                  the scheme was entered into or carried out for the
                  dominant purpose of realising the capital loss. Under
                  the counterfactual Catherine would not have carried
                  out the transactions and maintained her existing
                  shareholding. In contrast, Catherine has entered into
                  an artificial, self-cancelling arrangement and incurred
                  transaction costs in order to achieve the same result as
                  under the counterfactual for no benefit other than the
                  tax benefit of the capital loss.
                                                           Taxation Ruling

                                               TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                                  Page 9 of 47




       •       There is a discrepancy between the form and substance
               of the scheme (subparagraph 177D(b)(ii)). In form
               Catherine disposed of her beneficial ownership of the
               shares, but the effect of the concurrent and contingent
               sale and purchase is such that, in substance,
               Catherine’s position with respect to the shares has not
               materially changed. Catherine suffered no economic
               loss under the scheme. Under the counterfactual the
               form and substance coincide, with Catherine continuing
               to own and benefit from the shares. This factor points
               towards a dominant purpose of incurring a capital loss.
       •       The timing (subparagraph 177D(b)(iii)) of the scheme
               also suggests the requisite dominant purpose of
               obtaining a tax benefit. The scheme lasted a day with
               the sale and purchase occurring concurrently on
               20 May 2007 which, is proximate to the derivation of
               the $50,000 capital gain from the sale of land on the
               18 May 2007, and is not referable to any
               contemporaneous change in market sentiment or
               performance of the company.
       •       The tax results achieved (but for Part IVA)
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(iv)) is the incurrence of the
               $50,000 capital loss that reduces the separate $50,000
               capital gain and the amount of tax payable by Catherine
               for the 2006-2007 income year. This was the only
               benefit obtained by Catherine under the scheme, as the
               sale proceeds were substantially used to purchase the
               same amount of shares in the company. There has been
               no material change in Catherine’s financial position as a
               result of the scheme (subparagraph 177D(b)(v)), other
               than an increase in her financial resources from not
               having to pay tax on the capital gain derived on the sale
               of the land. Catherine has incurred transaction costs for
               no benefit other than the tax benefit obtained in
               connection with the scheme.
       •       There has been no change in the financial position of
               any parties associated with Catherine
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(vi)) but this is because no such
               parties were involved in the scheme and therefore this
               factor is neutral. There are no other consequences as
               Catherine continues to hold equivalent shares in Beta
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(vii)). This factor supports the
               conclusion that the scheme was entered into to incur the
               capital loss. The only connection between Catherine, the
               financial advisor and the stockbroker arises from
               commercial or professional relationships; namely for the
               giving of financial advice, and as facilitator in selling and
               buying the shares (subparagraph 177D(b)(viii)). Thus,
               this factor is neutral as to the dominant purpose.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 10 of 47                                Page status: legally binding



25.     Upon weighing up the eight matters it would be concluded that
the dominant purpose of Catherine in entering into and carrying out
the scheme was to obtain a tax benefit in the form of a capital loss. In
particular the manner, form and substance, timing, tax effects and
financial consequences for Catherine arising from the scheme
support this conclusion. Accordingly, the Commissioner may make a
determination under section 177F to cancel the tax benefit.


Example 2: 24 hours between disposal and acquisition
26.     Kelly maintains a large share portfolio. She sells a parcel of
Alpha shares from her portfolio on 20 March 2007 and makes a
capital gain of $62,000 in the year ended 30 June 2007.
27.     On 5 June 2007, Kelly receives a financial booklet discussing
various end of year income tax saving strategies. As a result of what
she reads, she reviews her share portfolio and notes that she holds
60,000 shares in Echo Ltd (Echo), a listed public company. Echo is a
medium sized public company, whose shares are readily traded.
Echo has not performed well for the last two years due to increased
competition to its business, and its share price has not moved much
since its last announcement of a dividend in March. According to the
newspapers Echo is currently trading at $1.20 per share. Kelly’s
reduced cost base for her Echo shares is $2.42 per share. Acting on
one of the strategies outlined in the booklet she devises a plan which
would allow her to crystallise the unrealised loss and maintain her
interest in Echo. In view of this she contacts Bruce, her broker, on the
same day to obtain information on the market and the current
expectations as to the price of the Echo shares. Bruce assures her
that there have been no relevant market announcements and that he
expects, based on the information available to him, that there will be
no significant movements in the price of the Echo shares over the
next couple of days.
28.     Acting on Bruce’s advice she places with him a sell order for
the 50,000 shares and the next day instructs him to buy 50,000 Echo
shares. The price of the stock has moved up by 1 cent during that
interval.
29.     Bruce charges Kelly $1,000 for transaction costs associated
with the sell and buy orders. CGT event A1 happens upon the sale of
the shares. Kelly’s capital proceeds from the transaction are $60,000
and her reduced cost base is $122,000 (including the $1,000
transaction costs), giving her a capital loss of $62,000. Kelly offsets
the capital loss against the $62,000 capital gain when preparing her
income tax return for the year ended 30 June 2007.
30.     The price of the Echo shares does not improve much during
subsequent years but Kelly holds the Echo shares until July 2010
when she sells part of her portfolio, including the Echo shares, in
order to pay a deposit on the purchase of a house.
                                                         Taxation Ruling

                                              TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                               Page 11 of 47



31.      The scheme, for the purposes of subsection 177A(1), includes
all the steps leading to, the entering into and the implementation of
the planned sell and buy transactions, the incurrence of a $62,000
capital loss and the offsetting of that capital loss against the $62,000
capital gain by Kelly. It does not include the subsequent sale of the
shares in July 2010, as it has no connection with the planned disposal
and acquisition that occurred in June 2007. The facts surrounding the
entry into the scheme, including the adoption of the strategy in the
financial booklet and the advice received on the expectations as to
price suggest, that Kelly planned to purchase back the same number
of Echo shares shortly after she sold them. Accordingly, the disposal
and acquisition of the shares 24 hours later constitute a scheme
within the meaning of subsection 177A(1).
32.      The objective circumstances of the scheme, in particular the
strategy acted on, the offsetting nature of the transactions, the short
period of time between them and the nature and market for the stock;
indicate that the relevant counterfactual is that there would have been
no change in Kelly’s beneficial ownership of the Echo shares.
Although Kelly did not hold any Echo shares for 24 hours, the scheme
had no real effect or outcome on her economic exposure to the stock
and it is reasonable to conclude that nothing would have happened if
the scheme had not been entered into or carried out. Thus, for the
purposes of paragraph 177C(1)(ba), the tax benefit obtained by Kelly
is the capital loss of $62,000 incurred during the 2006-2007 year.
33.       Section 177D provides that Part IVA applies to a scheme in
connection with which the taxpayer has obtained a tax benefit if, after
having regard to the eight specified factors, it would be concluded
that a person who entered into or carried out the scheme, or any part
of it, did so for the purpose of enabling the taxpayer to obtain the tax
benefit. Having regard to the eight specified factors:
       •       The manner in which the scheme was entered into
               or carried out (subparagraph 177D(b)(i)), in
               particular the short period of time between the
               disposal and acquisition coupled with the obtaining
               of advice to confirm suitable market conditions may
               objectively be taken to indicate that Kelly sold her
               shares without any real intention of ceasing to hold
               an economic exposure to Echo. There is no
               evidence of any matter that might cause a
               reasonable investor to undergo a change of view
               with respect to the stock. Further, Kelly sold the
               precise number of shares in Echo to incur a loss
               that exactly offset the expected capital gain. The
               manner in which the scheme was conducted, when
               compared to the relevant counterfactual, points to
               the conclusion that the scheme was entered into or
               carried out for the dominant purpose of realising the
               capital loss. Under the counterfactual Kelly would
               not have carried out the transactions and
               maintained her existing shareholding. In contrast,
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 12 of 47                                   Page status: legally binding



                  Kelly has entered into a self-cancelling arrangement
                  and incurred transaction costs in order to achieve a
                  similar result as under the counterfactual (as she
                  had to outlay $500 extra to purchase back the Echo
                  shares) for no benefit other than the tax benefit of
                  the capital loss.
       •          There is a discrepancy between the form and
                  substance of the scheme (subparagraph 177D(b)(ii)).
                  In form Kelly has disposed of her beneficial ownership
                  of the shares, however the overall result of the scheme
                  is that, in substance, Kelly’s position with respect to the
                  shares has not materially changed. Although Kelly was
                  at risk of an adverse economic outcome from a change
                  in price of the Echo shares, and this is consistent with
                  her having disposed of those shares the market
                  conditions and short period of time out of the market
                  limited her exposure to that risk. Further, she did not
                  suffer a significant cost from that risk as the change in
                  price was small (in accordance with the advice she
                  received) and the cost was more than outweighed by
                  the tax savings she secured by entering into the
                  scheme.
       •          The timing (subparagraph 177D(b)(iii)) of the scheme
                  also suggests the requisite dominant purpose of
                  obtaining a tax benefit. The scheme lasted over
                  24 hours with the sale occurring on the 5 June 2007
                  and the purchase occurring the next day which, is
                  proximate to the year end, and is not referable to any
                  contemporaneous change in market sentiment or
                  performance of the company.
       •          The tax results achieved (but for Part IVA)
                  (subparagraph 177D(b)(iv)) is the incurrence of the
                  $62,000 capital loss that reduces the separate $62,000
                  capital gain and the amount of tax payable otherwise
                  by Kelly for the 2006-2007 income year. This was the
                  only benefit obtained by Kelly under the scheme. There
                  has been no material change in Kelly’s financial
                  position as a result of the scheme
                  (subparagraph 177D(b)(v)), other than a net increase
                  in her financial resources from not having to pay tax on
                  the capital gain derived on the sale of the Echo shares.
                  Kelly has incurred transaction costs for no benefit other
                  than the tax benefit obtained in connection with the
                  scheme. Kelly did have to pay an additional $500 to
                  purchase the same number of Echo shares but this is
                  more than outweighed by the tax savings.
                                                            Taxation Ruling

                                                TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                                 Page 13 of 47




       •       There has been no change in the financial position of
               any parties associated with Kelly
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(vi)) but this is because no such
               parties were involved in the scheme and therefore this
               factor is neutral. There are no other consequences as
               Kelly continues to hold equivalent shares in Echo
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(vii)). This factor supports the
               conclusion that the scheme was entered into to incur
               the capital loss. The only connection between Kelly
               and the stockbroker arises from commercial or
               professional relationships; namely for the provision of
               financial advice, and as facilitator in selling and buying
               the shares (subparagraph 177D(b)(viii)). Thus, this
               factor is neutral as to the dominant purpose.
34.     Upon weighing up the eight matters it would be concluded that
the dominant purpose of Kelly in entering into and carrying out the
scheme was to obtain a tax benefit in the form of a capital loss. In
particular the manner, form and substance, timing, tax effects and
financial consequences for Kelly arising from the scheme support this
conclusion. Accordingly, the Commissioner may make a
determination under section 177F to cancel the tax benefit.


Example 3: transfer between two trusts
35.     Oscar is the sole trustee and a general beneficiary, together
with his family, of a discretionary trust (Trust 1). Trust 1 was settled in
March 1992. As trustee, during the 2003-2004 income year Oscar
purchased 1,000,000 shares in the publicly listed ABC Ltd (ABC) at
$1 per share. The purchase was financed by an interest only loan
from a third party, secured on other assets of the trust under which
market rates of interest are payable. On 11 June 2007 Oscar, as
trustee of Trust 1, sold shares held in another company, XYZ Ltd and
generated a capital gain of $255,000.
36.     On 12 June 2007, a second discretionary trust (Trust 2) was
settled with Oscar as the sole trustee. The terms of Trust 1 and
Trust 2 are very similar, but not the same. Both trusts are under the
sole control of Oscar, and their objects are the same. On that same
day, Oscar as trustee for Trust 1 transferred 500,000 shares in
ABC to himself as trustee of Trust 2 for a consideration of $250,000.
Oscar signed and executed a share sale agreement in his capacities
as trustee of Trust 1 and Trust 2. The purchase price was paid by
Trust 1 providing an interest only loan to Trust 2 on an unsecured
basis with interest owing on the amount outstanding payable based
on the same rates as the original loan from the third party. There was
no loan agreement.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 14 of 47                                   Page status: legally binding



37.     CGT event E2 happens upon the transfer of the ABC shares
to Trust 2. Trust 1 incurred a capital loss of $250,000. The capital loss
was calculated on a reduced cost base of $1.00 per share and capital
proceeds of 50 cents, the closing market price of the shares on
12 June 2007. The capital loss of $250,000 incurred by Trust 1 was
applied against the capital gain of $255,000 resulting in a net capital
gain of $5,000. The net capital gain of $5,000 was distributed to
Oscar and included in his assessable income for the year ended
30 June 2007.
38.      The scheme, for the purposes of subsection 177A(1), consists
of all the steps leading to, entering into, and the implementation of the
transfer of the shares to Trust 2, including the creation of Trust 2 on
12 June 2007, the transfer of 500,000 ABC shares by Trust 1 to Trust
2 on 12 June 2007, the incurrence by Trust 1 of a capital loss of
$250,000 from the transfer, the offsetting of the $250,000 capital loss
against Trust 1’s capital gains for the year ended 30 June 2007, and
the distribution by Oscar, as trustee of Trust 1, to himself as a
beneficiary of Trust 1, the net capital gain of Trust 1 for the income
year ended 30 June 2007.
39.     The objective circumstances of the scheme, in particular the
transfer of shares from Trust 1 to Trust 2 which are very similar, have
the same objects and are under the sole control of Oscar, indicate
that the relevant counterfactual is that the transaction would not have
occurred and that Oscar in his capacity as trustee for Trust 1 would
have remained the registered owner of the ABC shares. As the
scheme had no effect or outcome on Oscar’s legal title, or the objects’
economic exposure to the asset, it is reasonable to conclude that
nothing would have happened if the scheme had not been entered
into or carried out. Thus, for the purposes of paragraph 177C(1)(ba),
the tax benefit obtained by Oscar as trustee of Trust 1 is the capital
loss of $250,000 incurred during the 2006-2007 income year.
40.       Section 177D provides that Part IVA applies to a scheme in
connection with which the taxpayer has obtained a tax benefit if, after
having regard to the eight specified factors, it would be concluded
that a person who entered into or carried out the scheme, or any part
of it, did so for the purpose of enabling the taxpayer to obtain the tax
benefit. Having regard to the eight specified factors:
       •          The manner in which the scheme was entered into or
                  carried out (subparagraph 177D(b)(i)) is not straight
                  forward. It involved the settling of a trust, the transfer of
                  shares and a loan all occurring on the same day. The
                  terms of the trusts are very similar and the vendor and
                  purchaser was the same person, acting in different
                  capacities. The manner of the scheme, when compared
                  to the counterfactual, points to the conclusion that the
                  scheme was entered into or carried out for the dominant
                  purpose of incurring the capital loss. Under the
                  counterfactual Oscar as trustee of Trust 1 would not
                  have entered into the arrangement and remained the
                  registered owner of the shares. Also, the same objects
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                               TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                               Page 15 of 47



               would have continued to have a comparable equitable
               interest in the shares. In contrast, Oscar has entered
               into a contrived arrangement for no benefit other than
               creating a capital loss to reduce the net capital gain that
               Trust 1 would otherwise have distributed to Oscar in his
               personal capacity.
       •       There is a discrepancy between the form and substance
               of the scheme (subparagraph 177D(b)(ii)). In form there
               is a sale from Trust 1 to Trust 2 but in substance the
               beneficial ownership of the shares remained under the
               sole and complete control of Oscar, subject to the
               equitable obligation imposed under the terms of Trust 2
               that was very similar to the previous obligation imposed
               under Trust 1. There was no change in the objects’
               economic interests in the ABC shares, as the objects
               under Trust 2 were the same as the objects under
               Trust 1. Thus, no economic loss was suffered as a result
               of the scheme. Under the counterfactual the form and
               substance coincides, Oscar continues to legally own and
               may benefit from the shares if he exercises his
               unfettered discretion in his favour.
       •       The timing (subparagraph 177D(b)(iii)) of the scheme
               also suggests the requisite purpose of obtaining a tax
               benefit. The scheme lasted only one day. Trust 2 was
               established on 12 June 2007 and the transfer of ABC
               shares took place on that day. Furthermore, the
               transfer was proximate to the capital gain derived the
               day before and to the end of the financial year.
       •       The tax result achieved (but for Part IVA)
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(iv)) is the making of the capital
               loss of $250,000 that was applied against the capital
               gain of $255,000 in the year ended 30 June 2007,
               reducing the trustee’s net capital gain for that year, and
               thus the tax payable on that gain that was distributed to
               Oscar in his personal capacity.
       •       Although Trust 1 has disposed of assets, these have
               been replaced with the loan to Trust 2 and are offset by
               the inverse change of financial position of Trust 2
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(v)). There has been no
               material change in Oscar’s financial position under the
               scheme other than the increase in his financial
               resources from not having to pay tax
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(vi)). As a beneficiary of Trust 1
               he benefited from the capital loss which reduced his
               trust distribution from a net capital gain of $255,000 to
               $5,000. As trustee of Trust 2 he remains the registered
               owner and controls, in his discretion, who may benefit
               from the ABC shares. Thus, these factors point
               towards the requisite dominant purpose.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 16 of 47                                 Page status: legally binding




       •          There are no other consequences
                  (subparagraph 177D(b)(vii)) as Trust 2 substantially
                  replicates for both the trustee and objects their legal and
                  economic positions with respect to the shares.
                  No substantive family or business advantages have been
                  secured by entering into the scheme. The connection
                  between the parties (subparagraph 177D(b)(viii)) is one of
                  associates, in respect of which Oscar has sole control of
                  both trusts allowing Oscar to cause Trust 1 to incur a
                  capital loss while retaining legal title and the ability to
                  benefit from control of the shares, which points towards
                  the dominant purpose.
41.     Upon weighing up the eight matters it would be concluded that
the dominant purpose of Oscar as trustee of Trust 1 in entering into
and carrying out the scheme was to obtain a tax benefit in the form of
a capital loss. In particular, the manner, form and substance, timing,
tax effects, the financial consequences for Oscar and the connection
between Oscar, Trust 1 and Trust 2 would lead to this conclusion.
Accordingly, the Commissioner may make a determination under
section 177F to cancel the tax benefit. See also Cumins v. FC of T
[2007] FCAFC 21; 2007 ATC 4303; 66 ATR 57.


Example 4: transfer to a discretionary trust
42.      Liam Lewis holds a number of investments, including rental
properties and shares in listed public companies. His investment
activities do not constitute the carrying on of a business. Liam is also
the trustee and appointer of the Lewis Maintenance Trust (the Trust)
under which Liam has the discretion to hold and apply the assets and
income of the trust for the maintenance and education of his children,
according to their needs and requirements. The beneficiaries of the
Trust are his four school aged children. Liam is the default
beneficiary. As trustee, Liam holds shares and interests in managed
investment funds.
43.     On the 17 August 2006 Liam derives a $20,000 capital gain
from the sale of some of his shares. On 15 June 2007, Liam meets
with his financial adviser to review the current income tax and
financial position of himself and the Trust.
44.     Whilst reviewing his share portfolio, Liam and his adviser
examine his interests in Orion Metals Ltd (Orion), a listed public
company. Liam holds 14,000 shares in Orion and its current share
price is $3.75. Liam’s cost base and reduced cost base in Orion is
$4.55. Liam is advised that, notwithstanding the current poor
performance of Orion’s share price, Orion has recently undertaken a
strategic review of its operations and that it will be expanding its
operations in anticipation of growing demand for the commodities it
produces which should lead to a higher share price in the medium to
long term and that the shares should be retained. However, as the
Trust requires further capital to meet his children’s education needs
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                               TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                                Page 17 of 47



he is advised that he should gift the shares to the Trust as a source of
further investment capital and to reduce his income tax liability.
45.     Liam acts on the advice and transfers the shares for no
consideration to the Trust on 15 June 2007. The documentation
associated with the transfer is prepared by Liam’s solicitor.
CGT event E2 happens upon the transfer of the shares to the Trust.
After taking into account market value substitution rules Liam makes
a capital loss of $11,200 on the transfer that reduces his $20,000
capital gain, resulting in a net capital gain of $8,800 which is included
in his assessable income for the year ended 30 June 2007.
46.      The Orion shares pay high yielding and reliable franked
dividends. Prior to the transfer these dividends were received and
applied by Liam against the living expenses of himself and his family.
After the transfer the dividends are distributed to Liam’s four children
or accumulated as necessary to provide for the children’s education.
Liam as trustee for the Trust sells the Orion shares for a substantial
profit in January 2009 and distributes the net capital gain to one of his
children, who has recently turned 18 and requires money for
university.
47.      The scheme, for the purposes of subsection 177A(1), includes
all the steps leading to, the entering into, and the implementation of
the arrangement to gift the Orion shares to the Trust; the realisation
of the capital loss of $11,200; and the offsetting of the capital loss
against part of the $20,000 capital gain in Liam’s income tax return for
the year ended 30 June 2007. It does not include the subsequent
disposal of the shares in January 2009, as it is not connected with the
transfer of the shares to the Trust that occurred on the 15 June 2007.
48.      The objective circumstances of the scheme, including that
Liam remains the registered owner of the shares (although now in his
capacity as trustee), continues to control who benefits from the
shares subject to the equitable obligations imposed under the terms
of the Trust, and is a default beneficiary of the Trust, indicate that
under a reasonable counterfactual the share transfer would not have
occurred and Liam would have retained beneficial ownership of the
shares. As the scheme had no effect or outcome on Liam’s legal title,
and he retains an economic exposure to the asset as an object of the
Trust it may be reasonable to conclude that nothing would have
happened if the scheme had not been entered into or carried out.
Liam could, in his discretion, transfer the shares back to himself at
anytime. Thus, for the purposes of paragraph 177C(1)(ba), the tax
benefit obtained by Liam is the capital loss of $11,200 incurred during
the 2006-2007 income year.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 18 of 47                                  Page status: legally binding



49.       Section 177D provides that Part IVA applies to a scheme in
connection with which the taxpayer has obtained a tax benefit if, after
having regard to the eight specified factors, it would be concluded
that a person who entered into or carried out the scheme, or any part
of it, did so for the purpose of enabling the taxpayer to obtain the tax
benefit. Having regard to the eight specified factors:
       •          The manner in which the scheme was entered into or
                  carried out (subparagraph 177D(b)(i)) is consistent with
                  an ordinary family dealing. Liam has divested himself
                  of the Orion shares in order to provide for the
                  education and maintenance of his four children but
                  maintains control to ensure against dissipation of the
                  fund. The fact that the shares were disposed of for no
                  consideration is consistent with this purpose and this
                  aspect tends against the conclusion as to dominant
                  purpose. However, the act of transferring the particular
                  Orion shares, which were in loss, to the Trust as
                  opposed to Liam’s other more profitable assets may
                  impact on this conclusion. In this regard, Liam
                  transferred the Orion shares on the advice of his
                  financial advisor. It could be argued that this was done
                  to reduce his income tax liability. However, the trust
                  required further capital, and the advice was to effect
                  that the Orion shares would become a profitable
                  investment in the years to come.
       •          There is no discrepancy between the form and
                  substance of the scheme (subparagraph 177D(b)(ii)).
                  Although Liam remains the legal owner of the shares,
                  is a default beneficiary and has sole control over how
                  the capital or income of the shares is distributed; the
                  equitable obligation that they be applied for the
                  maintenance and education of his children is
                  substantive and real. His discretion to distribute income
                  has always been exercised in favour of his children.
                  The income produced by the shares is now applied or
                  accumulated for the benefit of his four children. Thus,
                  Liam’s four children substantively benefit from the
                  arrangement. However, it is also noted that prior to the
                  transfer Liam’s four children could be said to have
                  economically benefited from the Orion shares as they
                  are financially dependent upon Liam.
       •          The timing (subparagraph 177D(b)(iii)) of the scheme
                  suggests the requisite dominant purpose of obtaining a
                  tax benefit. The scheme lasted only a few days, with
                  the disposal of the loss making shares occurring
                  proximate to year end.
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                               TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                                Page 19 of 47




       •       The tax results achieved (but for Part IVA)
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(iv)) is the realisation of the
               $11,200 capital loss that was partially applied against
               the $20,000 capital gain, thus reducing Liam’s liability
               for capital gains tax. This was the only financial benefit
               obtained by Liam under the scheme. In addition to the
               tax savings obtained from the reduction of the capital
               gain there has been a material change in Liam’s
               financial position (amounting to the parting with
               $52,500 which is the current value of the shares) as a
               result of the scheme (subparagraph 177D(b)(v)), as he
               now holds the Orion shares subject to the equitable
               obligation under the trust deed that they be applied
               towards the maintenance and education of his children,
               and the income has been applied in the past for that
               purpose. However, this change in Liam’s financial
               position is offset by the improved financial position of
               his four children. This factor is accordingly neutral as to
               the required purpose.
       •       The financial positions of Liam’s four children have
               been improved as they now benefit from the Orion
               shares (subparagraph 177D(b)(vi)), however this factor
               is neutral as to purpose as it is offset by the inverse
               financial change of Liam. Although Liam is a default
               beneficiary the manner in which the trust is used
               suggests that substantively he no longer benefits from
               the dividends or any capital appreciation in the shares
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(vii)). This factor points away
               from the required purpose. Liam is the trustee of the
               Trust and father of the beneficiaries of the Trust
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(viii)). Thus, this familial
               connection explains why the transfer occurred and no
               consideration was received for it, and points away from
               the dominant purpose.
50.     Upon weighing up the eight matters it would be concluded that
none of the parties to the scheme had the dominant purpose of
obtaining a tax benefit in the form of a capital loss. The purpose of
Liam entering into and carrying out the scheme was to provide for the
maintenance and education of his children without fear of dissipation.
In particular, the manner, form and substance, financial
consequences and the nature of the connection between the parties
would support this conclusion. Accordingly, Part IVA does not apply.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 20 of 47                               Page status: legally binding



Example 5: transfer to a discretionary trust
51.     Stephen Bartlet holds a number of investments, including
rental properties and shares in listed public companies. Stephen
derives regular rents and dividends from most of these investments.
His investment activities do not constitute the carrying on of a
business. Stephen is also the trustee and appointer of the Bartlet
Family Trust (the Trust) under which Stephen has a wide range of
discretionary powers. The discretionary objects of the Trust include
Stephen, his spouse and dependent children. As trustee, Stephen
holds shares and interests in managed investment funds.
52.     On the 5 February 2007 Stephen derives a $40,000 capital
gain from the sale of shares. Stephen does not want to pay tax on the
$40,000 capital gain. He meets with his financial adviser on
15 June 2007 who recommends that they review his share portfolio,
and determine whether he has any unrealised capital losses that
could be crystallised and set off against the capital gain.
53.     His adviser notes that he holds 4,000 shares in Davros
Industries Ltd (Davros), a listed public company. The last time Davros
was traded on the stock exchange was over 6 months ago at $0.05.
Stephen’s reduced cost base in Davros is $10.55. Davros has
experienced a number of spectacular corporate misadventures over
the last 2 years which has seen its profits turn into significant losses
and its stock price plummet from a high of $20.00 per share. Stephen
is advised that it is highly unlikely that Davros’ share price will ever
improve. Furthermore, he is advised that if he wishes to crystallise a
capital loss he should gift the shares to the Trust, as it is highly
unlikely that he will be able to sell the shares on the market.
54.     Acting on the advice, Stephen transfers the shares for no
consideration to the Trust on 15 June 2007. The documentation
associated with the transfer is prepared by Stephen’s solicitor, at a
cost of $500. CGT event E2 happens upon the transfer of the shares
to the Trust. After taking into account market value substitution rules
Stephen incurs a capital loss of $42,500 that he applies to reduce his
$40,000 capital gain, giving him a net capital loss of $2,500 for the
year ended 30 June 2007.
55.     Prior to the problems that beset Davros, its shares paid high
yielding and reliable franked dividends. In previous years these
dividends were received and applied by Stephen to provide for his
and his family’s everyday expenses. The Davros shares have not
paid dividends for almost two years.
56.     Stephen continued to hold the shares in his capacity as
trustee for the Trust until Davros was wound up in insolvency during
2008. None of the ordinary shareholders of Davros, including
Stephen, received a return on winding up. Davros was dissolved and
the shares cancelled in October 2008.
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                               TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                                Page 21 of 47



57.      The scheme, for the purposes of subsection 177A(1), includes
all the steps leading to, the entering into, and the implementation of
the arrangement to gift the Davros shares to the Trust; the incurrence
of the capital loss of $42,500 and the application of the capital loss
against the $40,000 capital gain so that it was reduced to zero
resulting in a net capital loss of $2,500 to Stephen for the year ended
30 June 2007.
58.     The objective circumstances of the scheme, in particular that
Stephen remains the registered owner of the shares (although now in
his capacity as trustee), has control over who benefits from the
shares as trustee in his unfettered discretion and, thus, also the ability
as an object to still benefit from, or otherwise reinstate his beneficial
ownership of, the shares, indicate that under a reasonable
counterfactual the share transfer would not have occurred and
Stephen would have retained beneficial ownership of the shares. As
the scheme had no effect or outcome on Stephen’s legal title, and he
retains an economic exposure to the asset as an object of the Trust it
is reasonable to conclude that nothing would have happened if the
scheme had not been entered into or carried out. Thus, for the
purposes of paragraph 177C(1)(ba), the tax benefit obtained by
Stephen is the capital loss of $42,500 incurred during the 2006-2007
income year.
59.       Section 177D provides that Part IVA applies to a scheme in
connection with which the taxpayer has obtained a tax benefit if, after
having regard to the eight specified factors, it would be concluded
that a person who entered into or carried out the scheme, or any part
of it, did so for the purpose of enabling the taxpayer to obtain the tax
benefit. Having regard to the eight specified factors:
       •       The manner in which the scheme was entered into or
               carried out (subparagraph 177D(b)(i)) although
               straightforward, is more complicated than the
               counterfactual and is not entirely in accordance with an
               ordinary business or family dealing. Stephen entered
               into the scheme on the advice of his financial advisor
               as a strategy to reduce his tax liability. Although the
               shares were disposed of for no consideration and this
               aspect is consistent with a dealing of a familial nature,
               the decision to transfer the Davros shares, which carry
               little prospect of producing financial benefits for the
               beneficiaries of the Trust over Stephen’s other more
               profitable assets points towards the required dominant
               purpose of obtaining a tax benefit. The beneficiaries
               are unlikely to benefit in substance from the
               arrangement; an outcome that is contradictory to the
               notion of a gift to, or otherwise providing for, one’s
               family.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 22 of 47                                  Page status: legally binding




       •          There is a discrepancy between the form and
                  substance of the scheme (subparagraph 177D(b)(ii)).
                  In form the scheme is a gift of an asset to Stephen’s
                  family. The substance of the scheme is that the shares
                  have been transferred to the trust to crystallise a loss.
                  Although Stephen’s family in form may potentially
                  benefit from the Davros shares, the circumstances and
                  prospects of the Davros shares suggest that this is
                  unlikely to occur in this instance and that the trust is
                  being used simply to hold worthless shares. Further,
                  Stephen remains the legal owner of the shares as
                  trustee, is an object of the trust and has sole control
                  over how the capital or income of the trust is applied.
                  Stephen could re-transfer the shares to himself at any
                  time, or distribute to himself any financial benefits
                  produced by the shares, in the unlikely event that
                  Davros’ position improved.
       •          The timing (subparagraph 177D(b)(iii)) of the scheme
                  suggests the requisite dominant purpose of obtaining a
                  tax benefit. The scheme lasted only a few days, with
                  the disposal of the loss making shares occurring
                  proximate to year end. Stephen realised a capital gain
                  earlier in that income year and consideration was only
                  given to disposing of the Davros shares when it
                  became apparent that Stephen would be assessable
                  on this capital gain.
       •          The tax results achieved (but for Part IVA)
                  (subparagraph 177D(b)(iv)) is the incurrence of a
                  $42,500 capital loss that entirely reduced the tax
                  Stephen would otherwise have had to pay on the
                  $40,000 capital gain he derived earlier in the year. This
                  was the only financial benefit obtained by Stephen
                  under the scheme. In addition to the tax savings and
                  transaction costs there has been a change in
                  Stephen’s financial position as a result of the scheme
                  (subparagraph 177D(b)(v)), as he now holds the
                  Davros shares subject to the equitable obligations of
                  the Trust under which both he and his family may
                  potentially benefit. However, this change in position is
                  offset by an inverse change of an associate, by reason
                  of a corresponding change in the financial positions of
                  Stephen in his capacity as trustee of the Trust and of
                  Stephen’s family as potential beneficiaries under the
                  trust (subparagraph 177D(b)(vi)). The relationship
                  between these parties must be taken into account
                  (subparagraph 177D(b)(viii)). Thus, these factors either
                  favour, or are neutral to, the required dominant
                  purpose.
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                               TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                                Page 23 of 47




       •       Stephen in his capacity as trustee has acquired an asset,
               and his family have the opportunity to benefit from that
               asset (subparagraph 177D(b)(vi)). However, Stephen’s
               family will only be capable of benefiting from the transfer if
               the shares recover in value. There has been no real
               change in Stephen’s or his family’s positions as there is
               no value in the shares; nor is there any likelihood of an
               improvement in the value of the shares having regard to
               the information of the time (subparagraph 177D(b)(vii)).
               Stephen is the trustee of the Trust, father and spouse of
               the beneficiaries of the Trust and a beneficiary himself
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(viii)). Notwithstanding this familial
               connection to explain the transfer for no consideration;
               given the nature and prospects of the Davros shares, the
               transfer could not be regarded as a substantive gift. The
               large and immediate financial benefit obtained by Stephen
               through saving tax on the otherwise taxable $40,000
               capital gain outweighs any uncertain and unlikely chance
               of a recovery in Davros’ fortunes.
60.     Upon weighing up the eight matters it would be concluded that
the dominant purpose of Stephen in entering into and carrying out the
scheme was to obtain a tax benefit in the form of a capital loss. In
particular, the manner, form and substance, timing, financial and
other consequences and the nature of the connection between the
parties would support this conclusion. Accordingly, the Commissioner
may make a determination under section 177F to cancel the tax
benefit.


Example 6: period of time between disposal and acquisition
61.     David, a plumber by trade, has a keen interest in the share
market and maintains an online trading account. David holds a
diversified portfolio in a number of large publicly listed companies, but
on occasion David likes to gamble on certain speculative stocks that
attract his attention. His investment activities do not constitute the
carrying on of a business.
62.      One such speculative stock is the listed, widely traded and
highly volatile technology based stock IT Ltd (IT). Following a recent
rally, IT goes into ‘free fall’ in September 2006. Over the last weekend
of September 2006, David reviews his portfolio, researches the
company’s financial position, the views held by commentators, and
follows the discussion in various share market chat rooms. Following
his research, David decides that he should sell his stake in IT, which
has a reduced cost base of $2.88, in order to minimise further losses.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 24 of 47                                  Page status: legally binding



63.      On 2 October 2006, David sells his entire holding in IT, being
30,000 shares at a price of $1.50 per share. CGT Event A1 happens
upon the sale of the shares and David incurs a capital loss of
$41,400. On 2 and 3 October David actively investigates potential
companies to invest the proceeds he received from the sale of IT.
During the course of those investigations he notices that the
sentiment of certain investors towards IT has changed, that there has
been a relative increase in the volume of IT shares traded and that
the IT share price is climbing again. David continues to monitor IT
whilst trying to decide what company he should invest the surplus
funds. As he is unable to decide on a suitable investment, and IT’s
price has continued to climb, David decides to purchase shares in IT.
On 5 October 2006 David purchases 27,000 shares at the prevailing
market rate of $1.67 per share. On the 6 April 2007 David sells some
other shares and makes a capital gain of $35,000. The $41,400
capital loss is applied against this capital gain, giving David a net
capital loss of $6,400 for the 2006-2007 income year.
64.      The scheme, for the purposes of subsection 177A(1), includes
all the steps leading to (including the objective research undertaken
by David) the entering into, and the implementation of the sale and
the subsequent purchase of IT shares; the making of the $41,400
capital loss and the application of the capital loss against the $35,000
capital gain so that it was reduced to zero resulting in a net capital
loss of $6,400 to David for the year ended 30 June 2007.
65.      The objective circumstances of the scheme, in particular the
offsetting nature of the transactions which occurred within 3 days of
each other, may indicate that it is unreasonable to expect that David
would have incurred the capital loss of $41,400 had the scheme not
been carried out and, thus, that a tax benefit within the meaning of
paragraph 177C(1)(ba) has been obtained, being the $41,400 capital
loss. As the scheme had no material effect or outcome on David’s
economic exposure to the asset it is reasonable to conclude that nothing
would have happened if the scheme had not been entered into or carried
out. Alternatively, the length of time between the sale and purchase,
which coincides with changes in the market performance of IT, may
suggest that the sale and purchase are not part of the same scheme,
and that David would have disposed of the IT shares, regardless of the
scheme. If this is the case, David may not have obtained a tax benefit.
66.       Section 177D provides that Part IVA applies to a scheme in
connection with which the taxpayer has obtained a tax benefit if, after
having regard to the eight specified factors, it would be concluded
that a person who entered into or carried out the scheme, or any part
of it, did so for the purpose of enabling the taxpayer to obtain the tax
benefit. Having regard to the eight specified factors:
       •          The manner in which the scheme was entered into or
                  carried out (subparagraph 177D(b)(i)), in particular the
                  short period of time between the disposal and
                  acquisition, may objectively be taken to indicate that
                  David sold the shares without any intention of ceasing
                  to hold an economic exposure to IT. However, the fact
                                                        Taxation Ruling

                                             TR 2008/1
Page status: legally binding                              Page 25 of 47



               that the disposal and acquisition are explicable by
               reference to market changes, for instance the
               improvement in share price and demand for the stock
               may also be regarded as consistent with the way in
               which taxpayers usually hold and realise investments.
               The coincidence with market changes may lead a
               reasonable person to infer that the sale and purchase
               of the IT shares within a short time was the result of
               independent investment decisions to sell and buy for
               commercial reasons. Overall, this factor points away
               from the conclusion as to dominant purpose.
       •       There is no discrepancy between the form and
               substance of the scheme (subparagraph 177D(b)(ii)).
               In form, David has changed his beneficial ownership of
               the shares. The fact that David was at risk of (having
               regard to the widely held, actively traded and volatile
               nature of IT shares), and suffered, an adverse
               economic outcome from the change in the market
               value of the IT shares is consistent with David in
               substance disposing of his IT holding. The risk is
               material having regard to the market conditions of the
               time.
       •       The timing (subparagraph 177D(b)(iii)) of the scheme,
               in particular of the purchase, being referable to a
               change in investor sentiment and market activity tends
               against the dominant purpose of obtaining a tax
               benefit. The loss was incurred prior to the capital gain
               against which it was applied. However, there is nothing
               in the facts and circumstances to suggest that this gain
               was predictable or expected.
       •       The tax results achieved (but for Part IVA)
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(iv)) is the incurrence of the
               $41,400 capital loss that entirely reduced the tax David
               would otherwise have had to pay on the $35,000
               capital gain he derived later in the year. This was the
               only material benefit obtained, as the sale proceeds he
               received were used to purchase shares in IT on
               5 October 2006. There has been no material change in
               David’s financial position as a result of the scheme
               (subparagraph 177D(b)(v)). Other than the increase in
               his financial resources from not having to pay tax on
               the capital gain David acquired materially the same
               value of shares as he disposed of, just a smaller
               number.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 26 of 47                                 Page status: legally binding




       •          There has been no change in the financial position of
                  any parties associated with David
                  (subparagraph 177D(b)(vi)), but this is because no such
                  parties were involved in the scheme. David missed out
                  on the increase in the market value of the IT shares
                  whilst not holding them (subparagraph 177D(b)(vii)).
                  Furthermore, David had to pay more to acquire each IT
                  share than he received on disposal and, thus, could only
                  purchase a smaller number of IT shares. Thus, David
                  has suffered an economic loss in comparison to the
                  counterfactual. If the counterfactual had occurred David
                  would have continued to hold 30,000 IT shares, rather
                  than 27,000 IT shares under the scheme. This loss of
                  $5,100 is material when compared with the tax saving
                  obtained. The only connection between David and the
                  stockbroker arises from commercial or professional
                  relationships (subparagraph 177D(b)(viii)). Thus, these
                  factors are neutral, or tend against the conclusion as to
                  the dominant purpose.
67.     Upon weighing the eight matters it would be concluded that
the dominant purpose of David in entering into and carrying out the
scheme was not to obtain a tax benefit in the form of a capital loss. In
particular the manner in which the sale and purchase were entered
into, the form and substance of the scheme, the timing and other
consequences of the scheme support this conclusion. Accordingly,
Part IVA does not apply.



Date of effect
68.     This Ruling applies both before and after its date of issue.
However, the Ruling will not apply to taxpayers to the extent that it
conflicts with the terms of settlement of a dispute agreed to before the
date of issue of the Ruling (see paragraphs 75 and 76 of Taxation
Ruling TR 2006/10).



Previous Rulings
69.    Taxation Ruling IT 2643 and the second sentence of
paragraph 4(viii) and the whole of paragraph 96 of Taxation Ruling
TR 96/14 were withdrawn from the issue of the draft version of this
Ruling on 11 July 2007. To the extent that the views expressed in
those Rulings still apply, they have been incorporated in this Ruling.




Commissioner of Taxation
16 January 2008
                                                                Taxation Ruling

                                                   TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                                 Page 27 of 47




Appendix 1 – Explanation
       This Appendix is provided as information to help you
understand how the Commissioner’s view has been reached. It does
not form part of the binding public ruling.

General overview of Part IVA
70.    Part IVA is a general anti-avoidance provision that gives the
Commissioner the discretion to cancel all or part of a ‘tax benefit’ that
has been obtained, or would, but for section 177F, be obtained, by a
taxpayer in connection with a scheme to which Part IVA applies.
71.    Before the Commissioner can exercise the discretion in
subsection 177F(1), the requirements of Part IVA must be satisfied.
These requirements are that:
        (i)     a ‘tax benefit’, as identified in section 177C, was or
                would, but for subsection 177F(1), have been obtained;
        (ii)    the tax benefit was or would have been obtained in
                connection with a ‘scheme’ as defined in section 177A;
                and
        (iii)   having regard to section 177D, the scheme is one to
                which Part IVA applies.
72.    Further, general guidance on the application of Part IVA can
be found in Law Administration Practice Statement PS LA 2005/24
Application of General Anti-Avoidance Rules.


Scheme
73.     For Part IVA to apply, the identified scheme must fall within
the definition of ‘scheme’ in subsection 177A(1).6 That definition is
very broad, and is capable of constituting the taking of but one step.7
However, the identified scheme must be one in connection with which
a taxpayer has obtained a tax benefit.8




6
  Further discussion on the meaning of scheme under Part IVA can be found at
  paragraphs 54 to 60 of PS LA 2005/24.
7
  FC of T v. Hart (2004) 217 CLR 216; [2004] HCA 26; 2004 ATC 4599; (2004)
  55 ATR 712 at [43] per Gummow and Hayne JJ.
8
  FC of T v. Hart (2004) 217 CLR 216; [2004] HCA 26; 2004 ATC 4599; (2004)
  55 ATR 712 at [47] per Gummow and Hayne JJ, and at [9] per Gleeson CJ and
  McHugh J.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 28 of 47                                    Page status: not legally binding



74.     The precise formulation of the scheme for the purposes of
subsection 177A(1) will depend on the facts of the particular case.
However, the tax benefit in question must be sufficiently connected
with the scheme as identified. In the context of wash sales, the
scheme would usually consist of the steps taken to dispose of or deal
with the asset, for instance the happening of a CGT event, the capital
loss or allowable deduction incurred as a result, and any
arrangements or transactions entered into or carried out with the
effect that in substance there is no significant change in the
taxpayer’s economic exposure to, or interest in, the asset. It may
include the obtaining of or benefiting from financial, taxation or legal
advice, the incorporation, acquisition, or the control of a company or
the declaration or settlement of a trust, if these are relevant. It may
also include an understanding or arrangement which enables the
taxpayer to financially benefit from the asset disposed of.


Tax benefit
75.     Broadly, subsection 177C(1) provides that a tax benefit exists
for the purposes of Part IVA where it might reasonably be expected
that an amount would be included in assessable income, a deduction
would not be allowable, a capital loss would not be incurred, or a
foreign tax credit would not be allowable to the taxpayer in a year of
income, if the scheme had not been entered into or carried out.9
Determining whether this is the case depends on the facts and
involves ‘a prediction as to events which would have taken place if
the relevant scheme had not been entered into or carried out and the
prediction must be sufficiently reliable for it to be regarded as
reasonable’.10 This prediction is often referred to as the
‘counterfactual’.11
76.     Usually, in the case of wash sales, a relevant tax benefit will
arise in connection with the scheme because a capital loss is incurred
by the taxpayer as a result of one of the CGT events listed in
section 104-5 of the ITAA 1997 happening, being a capital loss that
might reasonably be expected not to have been incurred by the
taxpayer in that year of income if the scheme had not been entered
into or carried out: paragraph 177C(1)(ba) of the ITAA 1936.




9
   Further discussion on the meaning of tax benefit under Part IVA can be found at
   paragraphs 61 to 78 of PS LA 2005/24.
10
    FC of T v. Peabody (1994) 181 CLR 359 at 385; 94 ATC 4663 at 4671; (1994)
   28 ATR 334 at 353.
11
   This is the terminology used to describe the prediction or alternative hypothesis in
   PS LA 2005/24 at paragraphs 69 to 78.
                                                         Taxation Ruling

                                              TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                          Page 29 of 47



77.      While this matter is dependent on the facts of each case, it is
likely that, but for the scheme, the asset would not have been
disposed of or dealt with so that a CGT event happens in relation to
the asset in that income year. Rather, the objective circumstances of
the scheme, in particular the arrangements that ensure that there is
no real change in the taxpayer’s economic exposure to, or interest in,
the asset or enable the taxpayer to reinstate that exposure or interest,
suggest that it is unreasonable to expect that the taxpayer would
have incurred the capital loss during that year of income had the
scheme not been entered into or carried out. Notwithstanding the
disposal, objectively, such arrangements suggest that the taxpayer
never intended to cease to hold an economic exposure to, or interest
in, the asset.
78.     If an allowable deduction is incurred by the taxpayer in
connection with the wash sale, for similar reasons, ordinarily the
objective circumstances of the scheme will suggest that it is
unreasonable to expect that the deduction would have been allowable
to the taxpayer in relation to that year of income had the scheme not
been entered into or carried out.
79.      If there is a difference between the amounts of the asset
disposed of or dealt with, and acquired, this may impact on the
reasonable counterfactual and the extent of the tax benefit obtained.
Whether this is the case or not will depend on the facts. If the
difference between the amounts disposed of and acquired is relatively
insignificant this may have no affect on the counterfactual. If the
difference is material this may affect the formulation of the
counterfactual and, thus, the amount of the tax benefit obtained.
80.      Where the difference is substantial the reasonable
counterfactual may be that the taxpayer would have disposed of or
dealt with the assets regardless of the scheme and there would be no
tax benefit under section 177C. Alternatively, the circumstances may
be such as to suggest that the relevant counterfactual consists of two
transactions, being the disposal of a certain amount of assets with the
result that a capital loss or deduction would have been incurred by
the taxpayer in the year of income even if the scheme had not been
carried out, and a wash sale. In such a case, the relevant tax benefit
is only that amount of the capital loss or allowable deduction
attributable to the wash sale.
81.     For example, a difference in the numbers of shares disposed
of and acquired, for instance 1,000 shares are disposed of and
600 shares are acquired, may indicate that the reasonable
counterfactual is that the taxpayer would have sold 400 shares
regardless of the scheme. Therefore the tax benefit is the capital loss
on the 600 shares, and not the 1,000 shares. However, on the other
hand, if the difference between the amount of shares sold and
purchased is minor, for instance 1000 shares are disposed of and
950 shares acquired, the circumstances may indicate that the
difference in shares is an attempt to disguise the link between the two
transactions or fund the transaction costs. In such a case, the
reasonable counterfactual should be identified as being that the
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 30 of 47                                 Page status: not legally binding



taxpayer would have done nothing and that the tax benefit is the
entire capital loss incurred on the sale of all the shares.


Dominant purpose
82.     Part IVA will only apply to a scheme in connection with which
the taxpayer has obtained a tax benefit if, after having regard to eight
specified factors, it would be concluded that a person who entered
into or carried out the scheme, or any part of it, did so for the purpose
of enabling the taxpayer to obtain the tax benefit: section 177D.
Where there are two or more purposes, the purpose of obtaining a tax
benefit must be the dominant purpose: subsection 177A(5).
83.     It is possible for Part IVA to apply notwithstanding that the
dominant purpose of obtaining the tax benefit was consistent with the
pursuit of a commercial gain. Furthermore, the fact that a particular
course of action is both ‘tax driven’ and bears the character of a
rational commercial decision does not determine whether a person
has entered into or carried out a scheme for the dominant purpose of
enabling the taxpayer to obtain a tax benefit.12
84.      The conclusion about the requisite purpose is drawn by
having regard to the eight objective matters listed in
subparagraphs 177D(b)(i) to (viii) in turn. These matters do not
require any inquiry into the subjective motives of the relevant
taxpayer or persons who entered into or carried out the scheme or
any part of it.13 Therefore, section 177D requires an objective
conclusion as to purpose to be reached having regard to objective
facts.14


The eight factors in paragraph 177D(b)
85.       The eight factors listed in paragraph 177D(b) encompass a
range of matters which, taken individually or collectively, will reveal
whether or not the requisite purpose exists. Some factors may be of
little or no weight in ascertaining whether or not that purpose exists.15
However, all eight factors must be taken into account to determine
whether they point towards, point against or are neutral as to the
conclusion of a purpose of enabling the relevant taxpayer to obtain a
tax benefit. Some general observations follow regarding the
relevance of each of these matters in the context of wash sales.



12
   FC of T v. Spotless Services Ltd (1996) 186 CLR 404 at 415 and 416; 96 ATC 5201
   at 5206; (1996) 34 ATR 183 at 187 and 188.
13
   FC of T v. Spotless Services Ltd (1996) 186 CLR 404 at 421; 96 ATC 5201 at 5210;
   (1996) 34 ATR 183 at 192 and FC of T v. Hart (2004) 217 CLR 216; [2004] HCA 26;
   2004 ATC 4599; (2004) 55 ATR 712 at [65] per Gummow and Hayne JJ.
14
   Further discussion on the meaning of dominant purpose under Part IVA can be
   found at paragraphs 79 to 91 of PS LA 2005/24.
15
   FC of T v. Hart (2004) 217 CLR 216; [2004] HCA 26; 2004 ATC 4599; (2004)
   55 ATR 712 at [92] per Callinan J.
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                              TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                           Page 31 of 47



Subparagraph 177D(b)(i) – the manner in which the scheme was
entered into or carried out
86.     Subparagraph 177D(b)(i) requires that consideration be given
to the decisions, steps and events that combine to make up the
scheme. It enables contrivance and artificiality to be identified by
comparing the manner in which the scheme was entered into or
carried out with the manner in which the counterfactual would have
been implemented. If a scheme is entered into and carried out in the
manner in which ordinary business or family dealings are conducted,
the manner of the scheme will not indicate the purpose of obtaining
the tax benefit.
87.      The essence of a wash sale is that there is no significant
change in the taxpayer’s economic exposure to, or interest in, the
asset. Consequently, the taxpayer obtains no benefit from carrying
out the scheme, other than the tax benefit obtained in connection with
it. For instance, the steps or transactions may effectively cancel each
other out such that there is no benefit to the taxpayer from the
scheme, other than the tax benefit. If the wash sale involves the
taxpayer disposing of the asset to an associate and then re-acquiring
it or an arrangement under which the associate provides the financial
benefits of the asset to the taxpayer, the associate does not benefit,
and there is no benefit to the taxpayer other than the tax benefit
obtained.
88.     Rather, the manner in which a wash sale is conducted, when
compared to the counterfactual, being that there would have been no
change in the beneficial ownership of, or interest in, the asset, points
to the conclusion that the wash sale was entered into or carried out
for the dominant purpose of incurring the capital loss or allowable
deduction.
89.      If the counterfactual had occurred the taxpayer would not
have had to do anything to the asset in order to continue to
beneficially own, or have an interest in, the asset. By contrast, a wash
sale involves a number of contrived or artificial steps unnecessary for
the taxpayer to maintain beneficial ownership of the asset and that
either substantively cancel each other out, or have the effect that, in
substance, there is no significant change in the taxpayer’s economic
exposure to, or interest in, the asset. The manner in which a wash
sale is formulated and, thus, entered into or carried out is generally
explicable only by reference to its taxation consequences.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 32 of 47                           Page status: not legally binding



90.     This type of dealing is not consistent with the way in which
taxpayers normally hold and realise investments. Ordinarily, a
taxpayer who wishes to sell an asset to an arm’s length party for
market value would not then apply the proceeds of the sale to acquire
the same or substantially the same asset. Similarly, a taxpayer would
not sell an asset whilst planning to purchase the same or substantially
the same asset a short while later. A taxpayer who wishes to give an
asset to a family member for no consideration (that is, as a gift) would
not then enter into arrangements to either re-acquire it, or financially
benefit from it, so that the family member does not benefit in
substance from it.
91.     In determining whether the scheme was entered into and
carried out in the manner in which ordinary business or family
dealings are conducted, it is not a matter of whether the arrangement
is common place or frequently entered into by a taxpayer. Rather, this
factor examines whether the means adopted is consistent with the
means ordinarily used to achieve the relevant commercial or family
objective. There may be particular features of the way in which the
taxpayer conducts its business or family affairs that explain why the
arrangement was entered into in the way it was, and if this is the case
this factor will weigh against a conclusion as to the dominant purpose.
92.     Evidence as to the investment strategies followed by the
taxpayer, or that the taxpayer entered into the scheme on the basis of
financial or tax advice and the nature of that advice are also relevant
under this factor. Advice that is relevant would include the
circumstance of obtaining expert opinion regarding market conditions,
or expectations as to movements in the price of an asset. If the facts
and circumstances, including the obtaining of advice, surrounding the
entry into the scheme demonstrate that the scheme was entered into
pursuant to a regular or recognised investment strategy, this would
weigh against a conclusion as to dominant purpose. Conversely, if
the nature of the advice is inconsistent with such strategies, or is
otherwise suggestive of a tax purpose, this factor will point towards
the requisite purpose. Past conduct, for instance if the taxpayer has
entered into this type of transaction at year end in prior years may
also be relevant.
93.     This factor also has regard to the extent of the period between
the disposal and acquisition of the same or substantially the same
asset. A significant period of time between the disposal and
acquisition would be consistent with the way in which taxpayers
usually hold and realise investments.
94.     The nature and extent of differences between the assets
disposed of and acquired are relevant to this factor. Material
differences between the assets disposed of and acquired may
indicate that the taxpayer sold the asset in order to change their
investment exposure, particularly if there is a difference in the market
performance or risk profile of the original and replacement assets, or
in response to market changes or expectations, all of which are
consistent with ordinary commercial dealings.
                                                        Taxation Ruling

                                             TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                          Page 33 of 47



95.      Whether the asset was disposed of for its market value
impacts on the manner in which the wash sale was entered into or
carried out. Its relevance depends on whether the transactions in
question were conducted between arm’s length parties or the parties
are otherwise dealing at arm’s length. If the taxpayer disposes of the
asset to arm’s length or unrelated parties, and it is disposed of for
less than its market value this aspect would be inconsistent with the
ordinary manner of such dealings. By contrast, if the taxpayer
disposes of the asset to a family member, and the asset is disposed
of for less than its worth, or for no consideration, this may be
consistent with an ordinary family dealing, for instance a gift, or a
partial gift.
96.     The manner of the scheme also has regard to the
characteristics of the assets sold including whether the taxpayer only
disposed of those assets with unrealised losses, and whether the
number of assets disposed of is that number necessary to produce a
capital loss or allowable deduction which offsets, respectively, a
capital gain or assessable income already derived or expected to be
derived.


Subparagraph 177D(b)(ii) – the form and substance of the
scheme
97.     Subparagraph 177D(b)(ii) directs attention to whether there is
a discrepancy between the form of the scheme and its substance,
meaning its commercial and economic substance. A discrepancy
between the business and practical effect of a scheme on the one
hand, and its legal form on the other, may indicate that the scheme
was implemented in a particular form as the means by which to obtain
a tax benefit if the substance of the scheme may be achieved or
available by some other more straightforward or commercial
transaction or dealing.
98.     The form of a wash sale may involve a legal disposal of the
asset, or some other act which realises or ends the taxpayer’s
beneficial ownership of the asset, for example, CGT event A1. It may
also, depending on the circumstances, involve a legal purchase of
substantially the same asset, the purchase and exercise of a call
option to acquire substantially the same asset at substantially the
same price at which it was sold, or arrangements under which the
taxpayer obtains a proportion of the income generated by that asset
and/or any profit made on the subsequent disposal of that asset.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 34 of 47                           Page status: not legally binding



99.     Whilst a wash sale involves in form a change in the beneficial
ownership of the asset, essentially the overall result of the scheme is
that the taxpayer is left in the same or, substantially the same,
economic position they were in prior to carrying it out. Thus, the legal
effect of the scheme is different from its substance. A comparison
between the form and substance of the scheme with the form and
substance of what would have happened had the counterfactual
occurred, being that there would have been no change in the
beneficial ownership of the asset, highlights this. Under the
counterfactual the form and substance coincide – the taxpayer
continues to legally and economically benefit from the asset.
100. The timing of the disposal of, or dealing with the asset, and
the acquisition of the same, or substantially the same, asset has
bearing on the substance of the arrangement. The shorter the period
between the two the more likely it is that in substance there has been
no real change in the taxpayer’s economic exposure to, or interest in,
the asset. In contrast, the longer the period between the disposal and
acquisition the more likely it is that in substance, as well as in form,
the taxpayer has ended their ownership of, or interest in, the asset.
101. Also of relevance, where there is a period of time between the
disposal and acquisition, is whether the taxpayer suffered, or was at
risk of an adverse economic outcome, from a change in the market
value of the asset. In other words, from having to pay more to acquire
the replacement asset than was received on disposal, by reason of
being ‘out of the market’. The relative weight accorded to this aspect
depends on the degree of risk the taxpayer was exposed to and, in
particular, on the nature of the asset and its market.
102. If an active secondary market exists for the asset, as is the
case for shares that are traded on a stock exchange, whether the
taxpayer is exposed to risk of an adverse economic outcome may be
accorded some weight. The weight accorded will depend on the
nature of the market for that asset, in particular aspects such as
volatility, liquidity and volume, or whether the transaction has been
timed to take advantage of how the market usually behaves. It will
also depend on whether the circumstances suggest that the taxpayer
planned to expose themselves to this risk in the expectation that any
adverse cost resulting from it would be small, or otherwise more than
outweighed by the tax savings achieved by entering into the scheme.
If no active secondary market exists for the asset, or the asset is
otherwise not traded on a secondary market, the risk of an adverse
economic outcome is reduced and, thus, any exposure to that risk
may be of limited relevance.
                                                         Taxation Ruling

                                              TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                           Page 35 of 47



103. Derivatives or financial instruments may be used to replicate
the economic position the taxpayer had whilst holding the asset, or to
create a synthetic asset exposure. The issue is whether the financial
instrument provides the taxpayer with an economic equivalent asset
or benefit to that represented by the disposed asset. For example, an
equity swap involves a contractual agreement to exchange payments
linked to the performance of either an equity index or the shares in a
specific company. Such swaps can be used to acquire exposure to
the share price movement of a specific company to synthesise a
share purchase. Thus, an equity swap may allow a taxpayer who has
disposed of shares to continue to benefit from the economic
performance of those shares without actually having an interest in
them.


Subparagraph 177D(b)(iii) – the time in which the scheme was
entered into and the length of the period during which the
scheme was carried out
104. Subparagraph 177D(b)(iii) draws attention to particular ‘timing’
aspects of the manner in which a scheme is entered into or carried
out. It requires consideration of the time that the scheme, or any part
of it, was entered into or carried out, and the length of the period
during which it was carried out. In particular, it enables consideration
of the extent to which the timing and duration of the scheme go
towards delivering the relevant tax benefit or are related to
commercial or familial opportunities and requirements.
105. This factor requires that the Commissioner have regard to the
length of time, if any, between the disposal of the asset and the
acquisition of the replacement asset or other arrangements that
provide the taxpayer with the financial benefits that the taxpayer
would otherwise have received from the asset if they had continued to
hold it. The longer the passage of time between the transactions, the
more this factor would tend against the required dominant purpose.
106. However, if the scheme contains other steps that provide a
link between the disposal and acquisition, then the length of time
between the two events may be of less relevance. This will
particularly be the case if these steps mitigate the risks of the
taxpayer suffering adverse economic consequences from changes in
the market value of the asset (typically by the use of derivatives)
whilst not holding the asset during that period. For instance, a call
option that allows the taxpayer to acquire shares in the same
company at substantially the same price as it was disposed for
removes the risk of price variation. When exercised, the effect of the
arrangement is that there is economically no change in ownership.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 36 of 47                            Page status: not legally binding



107. As observed above, this factor also requires that the timing of
the wash sale scheme be considered. If the scheme is proximate to
the derivation of a capital gain or other assessable income this may
point towards the requisite purpose. Similarly, if the scheme occurs in
proximity to the end of the income year this may also point towards
the requisite purpose. However, if the wash sale does not occur in
proximity to year end this may not by itself be enough to cause this
factor to be neutral or point away from the requisite purpose. Of
relevance is whether the taxpayer had previously derived a capital
gain during that income year, which is offset by the capital loss. The
sale of the precise number of shares necessary to produce a capital
loss, which exactly offsets a capital gain derived in the income year,
would strongly point to a link between the two. By contrast, if the
incurred capital loss is substantially smaller than the realised capital
gain this may suggest no connection.
108. Where the capital loss has been incurred before the derivation
of the capital gain it is necessary to consider such matters as the
length of time between the incurring of the loss and the making of the
gain, and the degree to which the subsequent gain was predictable. If
it is certain, or highly probable, that a capital gain will be made, then
the fact that the loss is incurred prior to the gain will not of itself
prevent an inference being drawn that the loss was incurred in order
to offset the gain.
109. By contrast, if the elements of the scheme are proximate to
commercial events that ordinarily constitute matters that are taken
into account by investors in deciding whether to hold onto an asset or
otherwise, for example, a profit downgrading of a company and then
a later improvement, or an investment strategy, this factor would
weigh against the requisite dominant purpose.


Subparagraph 177D(b)(iv) – the result in relation to the operation
of this Act that, but for this Part, would be achieved by the
scheme
110. Subparagraph 177D(b)(iv) requires that consideration be
given to the taxation outcomes, including the tax benefit and any
other tax consequence arising from the wash sale scheme but for the
application of Part IVA.
111. Generally, the result but for the application of Part IVA under a
wash sale is the incurrence by the taxpayer of a capital loss, or an
allowable deduction, which is then available to be offset against a
capital gain or other assessable income (as relevant), whether
already made or reliably expected to be made. However, any other
tax result of the scheme for the other parties to the scheme may also
be relevant. The extent of relevance will depend on the nature of the
connection between the persons involved.
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                               TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                            Page 37 of 47



Subparagraph 177D(b)(v) – any change in the financial position
of the relevant taxpayer that has resulted, will result, or may
reasonably be expected to result from the scheme
112. Subparagraph 177D(b)(v) directs attention to any change in
the financial position of the taxpayer that results, will result or may
reasonably be expected to result from the wash sale scheme.
Financial position refers to the financial situation of the taxpayer and
whether there has been any increase or decrease to it as a result of
the scheme in this regard.
113. The financial result for a taxpayer of disposing of, or otherwise
ending their beneficial ownership of, or interest in, an asset is that
their financial resources decrease by the value of the asset disposed
of, and they may receive consideration, often cash, in return equal to
the value of the asset disposed of. Accordingly, the taxpayer has
divested the value constituted by the asset and if full consideration is
received, converted it into cash. The taxpayer is no longer entitled to
any further increases in value to that asset, or to any income
produced by it (this is further discussed under
subparagraph 177D(b)(vii)).
114. If the taxpayer disposes of the asset to an associate, for
instance to a family member as a gift, the taxpayer may not receive
market value consideration or even any consideration. In this case
the financial result for the taxpayer is that their financial resources
decrease by the value of the asset disposed of.
115. However, under a wash sale arrangement, other than any
increase in the taxpayer’s financial resources resulting from the
taxpayer not having to pay tax on the capital gain which is offset by
the realised capital loss, or by not having to pay tax on income offset
by the incurred allowable deduction, the taxpayer’s financial position
may not materially change. If the wash sale involves transactions that
offset or cancel each other the consideration received on disposal is
offset by the cost of acquisition. There is no net change in the
financial position of the taxpayer. The financial effects of a wash sale,
other than those resulting from the tax benefit obtained, are
consistent with there being no effective change in the taxpayer’s
economic exposure to the asset.
116. The taxpayer may also incur transaction costs (for example,
stamp duty or brokerage fees) or advisory fees in implementing a
wash sale scheme. However, these costs will have been incurred for
no overall economic advantage as the taxpayer ends up in materially
the same economic situation with respect to the asset as they were
before the transactions occurred. Furthermore, the materiality of such
costs needs to be weighed against the tax benefit and, in particular,
the tax savings obtained by the taxpayer in carrying out the wash
sale.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 38 of 47                            Page status: not legally binding



117. In the case where a taxpayer disposes of the asset to an
associate, although the taxpayer’s financial position may have
changed, the inverse change in the financial position of the related
entity and the relationship between the parties must also be taken
into account under subparagraphs 177D(b)(vi) and (viii).


Subparagraph 177D(b)(vi) – any change in the financial position
of any person who has, or has had, any connection (whether of a
business, family or other nature) with the relevant taxpayer,
being a change that has resulted, will result or may reasonably
be expected to result, from the scheme
118. Subparagraph 177D(b)(vi) requires that consideration be
given to any change in the financial position of any person who has,
or has had, any connection with the taxpayer being a change that
may reasonably be expected to result from the scheme. In a wash
sale, persons whose financial position may be relevant under this
factor include the person to whom the taxpayer disposes of, or deals,
the asset to, and the person from whom the taxpayer acquires a
replacement asset. Depending on the scheme implemented these
may be the same person. If there are other arrangements entered
into to mitigate the risks of not holding the asset, provide a synthetic
asset exposure, or provide the financial benefits of the asset to the
taxpayer, any change in the financial position of the persons involved
in these other arrangements may be relevant.
119. This factor assumes particular significance where the taxpayer
disposes of the asset to a family member or other associate, for
instance a wholly owned company or a trust in respect of which the
taxpayer is the trustee and a beneficiary. The taxpayer may have
disposed of the asset and changed financial position however the
change may mean little because of an offsetting change in position of
the family member, or associated entity.
120. If, in such a case the taxpayer continues to benefit in
substance from the asset, for instance by causing the associate to
distribute to them the income and capital appreciation produced by
the asset, the offsetting change in position of the entity indicates that,
effectively, there has been no material change in the taxpayer’s
economic exposure to, or interest in, the asset. As this is the same
result as under the counterfactual, this factor would point towards the
dominant purpose of obtaining the tax benefit.
121. For example, a taxpayer may have changed their financial
position if they transfer an asset to a wholly owned company of which
they are a director. However, this change in financial position is offset
by the wholly owned company acquiring the asset. Having regard to
the relationship between the taxpayer and their company, as required
by subparagraph 177D(b)(viii), these aspects of the arrangement may
indicate that the company is merely the taxpayer’s ‘alter ego’ and that
there has been no real change in the taxpayer’s financial position.
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                               TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                            Page 39 of 47



122. As the taxpayer is the only shareholder in the company and a
director, they are in a position to cause the company to distribute to
them the future benefits of the asset, or to reinstate their beneficial
ownership of the asset. Whether it would be concluded that the
taxpayer disposed of the asset for the objective dominant purpose of
obtaining a capital loss, as opposed to taking advantage of the lower
company tax rate (in contrast to the personal marginal tax rates) or
for some other business or family purpose, will depend on other
aspects of the arrangement, and the application of the other
paragraph 177D(b) factors.
123. For instance, whether the arrangement constitutes more than
a simple disposition of an income producing asset to a wholly owned
company under Taxation Determination TD 95/4 would depend on
whether it was apparent from the objective circumstances of the
scheme that the taxpayer chose to transfer those particular assets
because they carry unrealised losses, particularly if the taxpayer has
other assets that are not in loss which generate greater income, the
decision to not elect for roll-over relief under Subdivision 122-A of the
ITAA 1997, and the extent of income produced by the asset (if the
income produced is relatively minor the benefits of a lower tax rate
may be of lesser significance than the tax benefit of the capital loss).
If the taxpayer re-acquired the asset from the company, this would
also point strongly towards the application of Part IVA of the
ITAA 1936.
124. The timing of the scheme, for instance its proximity to the year
end and facts indicating a connection with a capital gain already
derived or otherwise expected to be derived, may also point towards
a conclusion that the taxpayer disposed of the asset to the wholly
owned company for the objective dominant purpose of incurring a
capital loss rather than for taking advantage of the lower company tax
rate.


Subparagraph 177D(b)(vii) – any other consequences for the
relevant taxpayer, or for any other person referred to in
subparagraph (vi), of the scheme having been entered into or
carried out
125. Subparagraph 177D(b)(vii) supplements
subparagraphs 177D(b)(v) to (vi) with its focus on the non-tax effects
of the scheme, not only for the relevant taxpayer, but also for all
connected parties. This factor looks to the practical, legal, economic
and any other outcomes achieved by the scheme for the taxpayer
and connected parties. The seventh factor serves as a catch-all
ensuring that any other consequences from the scheme are taken
into account, for instance regulatory consequences, or other non-tax
advantages arising to the parties to the scheme, whether of a
commercial or family nature.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 40 of 47                             Page status: not legally binding



126. This factor has regard to the commercial and other
consequences that result from disposing of, or otherwise dealing with,
an asset. A significant consequence for a taxpayer ending their
beneficial ownership of, or interest in, an asset is that the taxpayer no
longer benefits from the income produced by the asset or any capital
appreciation in the asset. For instance, a taxpayer who disposes of
shares in a company traded on the stock exchange would forego any
increases in the share price or any dividends subsequently paid on
the shares.
127. By contrast, the effect of a wash sale is that the taxpayer
continues their economic exposure to, or interest in, the asset and
consequently they may not miss out on any capital appreciation or
income generated by the asset, but rather continue to financially
benefit from the asset.
128. Also of relevance under this factor is whether the asset
subject of the wash sale is worthless, or near worthless. An asset is
worthless if it has no value and there is little likelihood of this
changing. An example of a worthless asset is shares in a company in
liquidation where the assets are insufficient such that there is little, if
any, likelihood of the shareholders receiving a distribution in winding
up. The consequence for the recipient of receiving a worthless asset
is that the recipient is unlikely to benefit from the asset, as the
objective circumstances indicate they are unlikely to receive any type
of return on it.
129. If the worthless, or near worthless asset, is disposed of or
otherwise dealt with to an associate, for instance a family member,
the consequence that the family member is unlikely to benefit from
the asset favours a conclusion that the dominant purpose of one of
the parties to the scheme was to enable the taxpayer to incur a
capital loss or allowable deduction. This will particularly be the case if
the taxpayer has obtained a large and immediate financial advantage
in the income year of disposal by applying the capital loss or
allowable deduction against capital gains or other assessable income.
130. However, it is acknowledged that a worthless or near
worthless asset may, in the future, recover some worth, or that a
return may be payable on it, as a result of a change in circumstances.
The particular facts or circumstances impacting on any likelihood of a
recovery in financial worth will also be taken into account and
weighed under this factor. However, the financial advantage of
reduced tax may outweigh any uncertain and, depending on the
circumstances, highly unlikely chance of an improvement in the asset
at some indefinite future time. If the taxpayer obtains other business
or family advantages by disposing of the worthless asset to the
associate then these will also be taken into account under this factor
and, depending on their weight, may point against the conclusion that
the asset was disposed of for the dominant purpose of incurring a
capital loss or allowable deduction.
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                               TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                           Page 41 of 47



Subparagraph 177D(b)(viii) – the nature of any connection
(whether of a business, family or other nature) between the
relevant taxpayer and any person referred to in
subparagraph (vi)
131. Subparagraph 177D(b)(viii) inquires into the nature of the
connection between the taxpayer and any other person whose
financial position is reasonably expected to change as a result of the
scheme or for whom there are any other consequences from the
scheme. The existence of any connection between the taxpayer and
these other persons is relevant to the identification of the other
factors, such as the manner of the scheme, the form and substance
of the scheme, tax result, financial change and other consequences
of the scheme.
132. If the parties the taxpayer deals with in implementing the wash
sale scheme are unrelated parties dealing at arm’s length this aspect
may tend against the requisite conclusion as to purpose, although its
weight as against other factors which point towards the requisite
purpose will also have to be considered. For example, in the context
of change in financial position, the connection between the parties
may be one of arm’s length vendor and purchaser, or broker and
client and, thus, subparagraphs 177D(b)(v) and (vi) and this factor
may point towards a non-tax purpose, or at least be neutral as to
purpose.
133. If the taxpayer has transferred the asset to a wholly owned
company, or to an associated trust, this factor may tend towards the
conclusion as to dominant purpose. In this context the extent of
control the taxpayer exerts over the entity, whether there are other
associated arrangements enabling the taxpayer to re-acquire the
asset or otherwise obtain the financial benefits produced by the asset
and whether that power has been or will be exercised substantially for
the economic benefit of the taxpayer (as a shareholder in the
company, or a beneficiary under the trust, for instance) as against
other shareholders or beneficiaries are all relevant considerations.
134. The fact that the taxpayer disposing of the asset to the
associated entity is not the only person capable of benefiting from it is
relevant and may point away from the requisite purpose but does not
necessarily preclude a finding that the taxpayer or some other person
had the requisite purpose. Regard should be had to whether the
taxpayer will substantially receive the economic benefits of the asset
by reason of the ability to control who receives them and previous
patterns of distributions or other relevant information impacting on
how the benefits are likely to be distributed.
135. This factor also requires that attention be paid to the existence
of family relationships between the taxpayer and other persons who
are affected in any way by the scheme. This could assist taxpayers in
some cases, particularly where family members benefit in substance
from the arrangement.
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 42 of 47                                    Page status: not legally binding



136. For example, a taxpayer may provide for family members by
settling or transferring assets they own on trust for the benefit of
themselves and family members, retain control over those assets by
virtue of being the trustee (including, if a discretionary trust, the ability
to determine to whom the trust property will be distributed) and may,
by virtue of being a beneficiary or object, have the potential to receive
the financial benefits of the asset. Yet, if the circumstances indicate
that the family members benefit or are likely to benefit in substance
from this arrangement, this would point away from the requisite
purpose, regardless of the fact that the taxpayer has maintained
control of the asset (which may, in any event, be consistent with an
ordinary family dealing).


Compensating adjustments
137. Where the Commissioner has made a determination under
subsection 177F(1) cancelling the whole or part of a tax benefit
obtained in connection with a wash sale, he may, if in his opinion it is
fair and reasonable, make another determination under
subsection 177F(3) adjusting the taxation situation of any taxpayer. A
subsection 177F(3) determination is known as a ‘compensating
adjustment’.16
138. A determination for a compensating adjustment can be made
where, in the opinion of the Commissioner, had the scheme not been
entered into or carried out, an amount:
           •        would not have been or would not be included in
                    assessable income;
           •        would have been or would be allowable as a
                    deduction;
           •        would have been or would be incurred as a capital
                    loss; and
           •        would have been or would be allowable as a foreign
                    tax credit.
139. The Commissioner must also be of the opinion that it is fair
and reasonable that the compensating adjustment be made.
140. Whether compensating adjustments can, and should, be
made in the case of wash sales needs to be considered on the
particular facts of the case, and the Commissioner will only be in a
position to determine whether it is fair and reasonable that a
compensating adjustment be made when the application of Part IVA
is finally established (Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd v.
Federal Commissioner of Taxation (2003) 137 FCR 1; 2003 ATC
5041; (2003) 54 ATR 449).



16
     Further, general information about compensating adjustments is also provided in
     paragraphs 136 to 138 of PS LA 2005/24.
                                                            Taxation Ruling

                                                      TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                             Page 43 of 47



141. However, if the taxpayer subsequently genuinely ends their
beneficial ownership of, or interest in, the wash sale asset the
Commissioner is likely to consider making adjustments to a
taxpayer’s position if:
           •       an additional amount has been included in assessable
                   income that would not have been included, or
           •       a larger capital loss or allowable deduction would have
                   been incurred,
had the wash sale not been entered into carried out.
142. The result of the wash sale scheme and the application of
Part IVA cancelling the capital loss made on the wash sale is that the
cost base of the original asset is no longer available to any taxpayer.
However, the circumstances may be such that economically the
amount of the capital loss denied or some part of it would have been
incurred by the taxpayer at the time when their interest in the asset
genuinely comes to an end. The extent of any such adjustments will
depend on whether the capital proceeds received on the subsequent
disposal are greater or less than the original cost base (or reduced
cost base) of the asset. It will also depend, if the wash sale involves
two or more taxpayers, on who was taxed on the proceeds of the
subsequent genuine disposition, and the relationship between those
taxpayers.
143. For example, following on from Example 1 of this Ruling,
Catherine genuinely ends her interest in the company by selling the
100,000 shares for $0.75 per share on the 14 April 2008. Catherine
has made a $24,000 capital gain on the sale of the shares,17 but she
would have made a $25,000 capital loss18 if the wash sale had not
been entered into. When the application of Part IVA is established,
subject to the particular circumstances, the Commissioner may make
the following expected compensating adjustments:
           •       to not include the $24,000 capital gain in the
                   2007-2008 income year (which would not have been
                   included in the assessable income of Catherine if the
                   wash sale scheme had not been entered into or carried
                   out) under paragraph 177F(3)(a); and
           •       to include a capital loss of $25,000 in the 2007-2008
                   income year upon the genuine disposal (being a loss
                   that would have been incurred by Catherine if the wash
                   sale scheme had not been entered into or carried out)
                   under paragraph 177F(3)(c).




     Calculated as (100,000 × $0.75) - (100,000 × $0.51).
17

     Calculated as (100,000 × $0.75) - (100,000 × $1.00).
18
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 44 of 47                                  Page status: not legally binding



144. However, if the 100,000 shares were sold for $1.30 per share
on the 14 April 2008 such that Catherine made a capital gain of
$79,00019 the Commissioner may make a compensating adjustment
to not include $50,000 of the capital gain in the 2007-08 income year
under paragraph 177F(3)(a) so that Catherine makes a $29,000
capital gain in the 2007-2008 income year.
145. The Commissioner’s power to make an adjustment under
subsection 177F(3) may be exercised in relation to any taxpayer, not
only the taxpayer who obtained the tax benefit. Thus, in Example 3 of
this Ruling, if Trustee 2 subsequently disposes of the 500,000 shares
and distributes the net capital gain to Oscar the Commissioner may
make, if fair and reasonable, compensating adjustments to both
Trustee 1 and Trustee 2 in order to tax Oscar as if the wash sale
scheme had not been entered into or carried out.




     Calculated as (100,000 × $1.30) - (100,000 × $0.51).
19
                                                             Taxation Ruling

                                                 TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                              Page 45 of 47




Appendix 2 – Detailed contents list
146.     The following is a detailed contents list for this Ruling:
                                                                Paragraph
What this Ruling is about                                                 1
Class of entity/arrangement                                               2
Ruling                                                                    9
Examples                                                                 18
Example 1: concurrent disposal and acquisition                           18
Example 2: 24 hours between disposal and acquisition                     26
Example 3: transfer between two trusts                                   35
Example 4: transfer to a discretionary trust                             42
Example 5: transfer to a discretionary trust                             51
Example 6: period of time between disposal and acquisition               61
Date of effect                                                           68
Previous Rulings                                                         69
Appendix 1 – Explanation                                                 70
General overview of Part IVA                                             70
Scheme                                                                   73
Tax benefit                                                              75
Dominant purpose                                                         82
The eight factors in paragraph 177D(b)                                   85
Subparagraph 177D(b)(i) – the manner in which the
scheme was entered into or carried out                                   86
Subparagraph 177D(b)(ii) – the form and substance
of the scheme                                                            97
Subparagraph 177D(b)(iii) – the time in which the
scheme was entered into and the length of the period
during which the scheme was carried out                                 104
Subparagraph 177D(b)(iv) – the result in relation to the
operation of this Act that, but for this Part, would be
achieved by the scheme                                                  110
Subparagraph 177D(b)(v) – any change in the financial
position of the relevant taxpayer that has resulted,
will result, or may reasonably be expected to result
from the scheme                                                         112
Taxation Ruling

TR 2008/1
Page 46 of 47                           Page status: not legally binding



Subparagraph 177D(b)(vi) – any change in the financial
position of any person who has, or has had, any connection
(whether of a business, family or other nature) with the
relevant taxpayer, being a change that has resulted,
will result or may reasonably be expected to result,
from the scheme                                                     118
Subparagraph 177D(b)(vii) – any other consequences
for the relevant taxpayer, or for any other person referred
to in subparagraph (vi), of the scheme having been
entered into or carried out                                         125
Subparagraph 177D(b)(viii) – the nature of any connection
(whether of a business, family or other nature) between
the relevant taxpayer and any person referred to in
subparagraph (vi)                                                   131
Compensating adjustments                                            137
Appendix 2 – Detailed contents list                                 146
                                                          Taxation Ruling

                                             TR 2008/1
Page status: not legally binding                           Page 47 of 47




References
Previous draft:                       -   ITAA 1997 104-5
TR 2007/D7                            -   ITAA 1997 104-10
                                      -   ITAA 1997 104-55
Related Rulings/Determinations:       -   ITAA 1997 104-60
                                      -   ITAA 1997 Subdiv 122-A
TD 95/4; TR 2006/10
                                      -   TAA 1953
Previous Rulings/Determinations:
                                      Case references:
IT 2643; TR 96/14
                                      - Australia & New Zealand
                                        Banking Group Ltd v. Federal
Subject references:
                                        Commissioner of Taxation
- capital loss                          (2003) 203 ALR 644; (2003)
- deduction                             137 FCR 1; 2003 ATC 5041;
- income tax                            (2003) 54 ATR 449; [2003]
- scheme                                FCA 1410; [2004] ALMD 1895;
- tax benefit                           [2004] ALMD 1894
                                      - Cumins v. FC of T [2007]
Legislative references:                 FCAFC 21; 2007 ATC 4303;
- ITAA 1936 Pt IVA                      66 ATR 57
- ITAA 1936 177A                      - FCT v. Hart (2004) 78 ALJR
- ITAA 1936 177A(1)                     875; (2004) 206 ALR 207;
- ITAA 1936 177A(5)                     (2004) 217 CLR 216; [2004]
- ITAA 1936 177C                        HCA 26; 2004 ATC 4599;
- ITAA 1936 177C(1)                     (2004) 55 ATR 712; [2004]
- ITAA 1936 177C(1)(b)                  ALMD 4877; [2004] ALMD
- ITAA 1936 177C(1)(ba)                 4881
- ITAA 1936 177D                      - FCT v. Peabody (1994) 68
- ITAA 1936 177D(b)                     ALJR 680; (1994) 123 ALR
- ITAA 1936 177D(b)(i)                  451; (1994) 181 CLR 359; 94
- ITAA 1936 177D(b)(ii)                 ATC 4663; (1994) 28 ATR 344
- ITAA 1936 177D(b)(iii)              - FC of T v. Spotless Services
- ITAA 1936 177D(b)(iv)                 Limited 1996) 71 ALJR 81;
- ITAA 1936 177D(b)(v)                  (1996) 141 ALR 92; (1996)
- ITAA 1936 177D(b)(vi)                 186 CLR 404; 96 ATC 5201;
- ITAA 1936 177D(b)(vii)                (1996) 34 ATR 183
- ITAA 1936 177D(b)(viii)
- ITAA 1936 177F                      Other references:
- ITAA 1936 177F(1)                   - PS LA 2005/24
- ITAA 1936 177F(3)
- ITAA 1936 177F(3)(a)
- ITAA 1936 177F(3)(c)

ATO references
NO:            2005/18220
ISSN:          1039-0731
ATOlaw topic: Income Tax ~~ Deductions ~~ capital v revenue
               expenditure
               Income Tax ~~ Entity specific matters ~~ trusts
               Income Tax ~~ Tax integrity measures ~~ schemes
