

	A Hedge Between Keeps Friendship Green:  Could Global Fragmentation Change the Way Australian Investors Think About Currency Risk? | Speeches | RBA

			It appears JavaScript is currently blocked
			Check your browser settings and network. This website requires JavaScript for some content and functionality.

	Skip to content

			Reserve Bank of Australia

			Menu

				What are you looking for?

				Search

			Monetary Policy
			Market Operations
			Payments & Infrastructure
			Financial Stability
			Banknotes
			Financial Services
			About Us

			Media Releases
			Speeches
			Publications
			Statistics
			Chart Pack
			Research
			Archives
			Education
			Careers
			Q&A
			Contact Us

						In Speeches

							2021–2026

									2026
									2025
									2024
									2023
									2022
									2021

							2011–2020

									2020
									2019
									2018
									2017
									2016
									2015
									2014
									2013
									2012
									2011

							2001–2010

									2010
									2009
									2008
									2007
									2006
									2005
									2004
									2003
									2002
									2001

							1990–2000

									2000
									1999
									1998
									1997
									1996
									1995
									1994
									1993
									1992
									1991
									1990

						Filter speeches by

							Governor

									2026
									2025
									2024
									2023

							Deputy Governor

								Monetary Policy Board Members

								Past Governors

									Philip Lowe

											2023
											2022
											2021
											2020
											2019
											2018
											2017
											2016

									Glenn Stevens

											2016
											2015
											2014
											2013
											2012
											2011
											2010
											2009
											2008
											2007
											2006

									Ian Macfarlane

											2006
											2005
											2004
											2003
											2002
											2001
											2000
											1999
											1998
											1997
											1996

									Bernie Fraser

											1996
											1995
											1994
											1993
											1992
											1991
											1990

								Past Deputy Governors

									Michele Bullock
									Guy Debelle
									Philip Lowe
									Ric Battellino
									Glenn Stevens
									Stephen Grenville
									Graeme Thompson
									Ian Macfarlane
									John Phillips

								Testimonies Before Parliament

								Media Conferences

								Podcasts

						Speech
							A Hedge Between Keeps Friendship Green:  Could Global Fragmentation Change the Way Australian Investors Think About Currency Risk?

								Andrew Hauser*

								Deputy Governor

								Remarks for a function hosted by CLS Bank International and NAB

								Sydney –
								16 September 2025

									Audio xxxMB

									Q&A Transcript

									Download
									xxxKB

							-->

					Introduction
					It is a privilege to be invited to address the Board of CLS – or ‘Continuous Linked
						Settlement’ in longhand – on what I believe is your first meeting in Australia since 2017.
					CLS is hardly a household name. But what it lacks in ‘rizz’, it more than makes up in the
						critical role it plays in the international financial architecture: massively reducing the risk of
						settlement failure in the global foreign exchange (FX) market.
					As you all know, but is worth repeating for a wider audience, settlement risk is a particularly important
						issue in FX markets because of the time differences between the major currency blocs. It would be all too
						easy to pay away one leg of FX transactions during the business hours of that currency, in anticipation
						of the return leg being paid when the other country wakes up – only to find that second leg
						interrupted, leaving large, unsettled liabilities. Exactly that happened when the Cologne-based Bankhaus
						Herstatt was liquidated in 1974 at the end of German banking hours – after Deutsche Mark payments
						had been made, but before the return US dollar legs had settled. Chaos ensued.
					The sums involved in FX markets are truly massive – over US$7.5 trillion a day in 2022, and set
						to have grown substantially since then.1 So getting this right matters critically for financial
						stability. The CLS solution seems obvious today: ensure that payments on both legs are made
						simultaneously, in central bank money, in each national real time gross settlement system.2 But it was
						22 years after Herstatt before the international community settled on this plan,3 and
						another six before CLS opened for business in 2002.
					From the start, Australia has been a close partner in CLS’s development. The Australian dollar was
						one of the seven founding CLS currencies – so we’ve had an operational relationship with you,
						every day, since the very beginning. On the regulatory side, too, CLS is categorised as a systemically
						important international payment system in Australia; and we sit on the regulatory college for CLS,
						chaired by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
					The Australian dollar itself has long punched above its weight in global markets.4 It had the
						sixth highest daily turnover of any currency in the 2022 BIS Triennial survey, despite Australia ranking
						only 11th by nominal GDP at the time (Table 1). None of the other top 10 currencies in
						Table 1 has that level of outperformance while operating a completely free float.5

							Table 1: Major Currencies Ranked by FX Turnover and GDP (2022)

									Currency
									FX turnover share(a)
									Nominal GDP share(b)(rank in parenthesis)
									CLS eligible(c) ?

									US dollar
									89.5
									27.5 (1)
									Yes

									Euro
									30.9
									15.3 (3)
									Yes

									Japanese yen
									16.9
									4.5 (4)
									Yes

									British pound
									13
									3.3 (6)
									Yes

									Chinese renminbi
									7.1
									19.4 (2)
									No

									Australian dollar
									6.5
									1.8 (11)
									Yes

									Canadian dollar
									6.3
									2.3 (8)
									Yes

									Swiss franc
									5.3
									0.9 (16)
									Yes

									Hong Kong dollar
									2.6
									0.4 (30)
									Yes

									Singapore dollar
									2.5
									0.5 (23)
									Yes

									Swedish krona
									2.3
									0.6 (21)
									Yes

									Korean won
									1.9
									1.9 (10)
									Yes

									Norwegian krone
									1.7
									0.6 (20)
									Yes

									New Zealand dollar
									1.7
									0.3 (35)
									Yes

									Indian rupee
									1.6
									3.5 (5)
									No

									Mexican peso
									1.5
									1.6 (12)
									Yes

									New Taiwan dollar
									1.1
									0.8 (17)
									No

									South African rand
									1
									0.4 (27)
									Yes

									Brazilian real
									0.9
									2.1 (9)
									No

									Danish krone
									0.7
									0.4 (29)
									Yes

									Polish zloty
									0.7
									0.7 (18)
									No

									Thai baht
									0.4
									0.5 (25)
									No

									Israeli new shekel
									0.4
									0.6 (22)
									Yes

										(a) Share of global average daily turnover, measured on a net-net basis against all
											other currencies. The sum of percentage shares of individual currencies totals
											200 per cent because two currencies are involved in each transaction, Data
											are from the BIS 2022 Triennial Survey; the results from the 2025 Survey will be
											released later this month. The sample of currencies is limited to those with the
											largest turnover rates, but all reported currencies were included in
											calculations. (b) GDP data are measured in US dollars as of 2022 and are
											sourced from the IMF. GDP share and rank are both relative to the sample of economies
											with currencies in the BIS Triennial Survey. (c) The Hungarian forint is also
											eligible for CLS settlement but falls below the FX turnover cutoff used in
											Table 1.

					That special status reflects three main things:6

						As a major commodity exporter, Australia’s economic conditions are sensitive to the outlook for
							global growth; Australian dollar assets have therefore been seen as a good way for investors to
							manage their risk, gaining ‘risk on’ exposure by going long, or hedging risk by going
							short.
						Australia’s geographical position, its openness to capital and its developed FX hedging markets,
							mean it was historically used to gain proxy-exposure to Asian economies whose currencies are harder
							to invest in, or where it is harder to issue debt.
						Australia’s superannuation (or pension) funds are investing an ever-increasing amount overseas.
							Even today, the sums are huge: Australian retirement savings are the fourth largest in the world,
							with assets equivalent to around 150 per cent of Australian GDP, half of which are
							offshore. And that is set to grow further: within a decade the sector will be the second largest
							globally, with assets rising to around 180 per cent of GDP, and an overseas portfolio share
							approaching three-quarters.7

					All of this may be great news for Australian dollar volumes! But it also puts us bang at the heart of a
						quite exceptional period of uncertainty about the future direction of the global economic and financial
						system. Some argue we are on the verge of a fundamental shift, with the world breaking into rival,
						fragmented trading blocks, and a collapse in US dollar hegemony. Others wonder if this may all be a
						bit overblown, with the global trading system proving more robust, and the US dollar’s role too
						embedded, to see a serious challenge – for now, at least.
					I cannot hope to resolve these profound questions today, but I do want to look at what this uncertainty
						may mean for Australian investors, and particularly the super funds, as they look out into a turbulent
						world – and how it could affect the ways they think about managing currency risk in their global
						portfolios, both now and in the years ahead.
					Through a hedge backwards: Australia’s natural advantage?
					Australians have always been big overseas investors, both for standard diversification reasons, and
						because the onshore asset base is relatively small. But they have typically taken only modest levels of
						protection against FX movements on their riskier overseas asset holdings. The superannuation sector as a
						whole is estimated to hedge only around one-fifth of the value of its overseas listed equity positions,
						for example (Graph 1).8

								Graph 1

					To see why that might be, let’s start by reminding ourselves that, other things equal, Australian
						investors holding US dollar denominated equities are worse off when the Australian dollar
						appreciates (or equivalently the US dollar depreciates). They can insure
						against this risk by using FX swaps or forwards to take short positions in the US dollar (against
						long positions in their own currency). But buying derivatives is often costly – so the benefit from
						doing so has to justify the cost.
					One factor reducing that benefit is the extent to which FX movements can be expected to provide a kind of
						‘natural’ hedge against the equity holdings. That would happen in our example if the Australian
						dollar tended to depreciate against the US dollar when US equity prices fall, offsetting some of the
						offshore capital losses when converted back to domestic currency. But historically that is exactly what
						has happened: first, because the US dollar has typically been viewed as a safe haven or ‘risk
						off’ currency that rises when global conditions are bad; and second, for the reasons I mentioned
						earlier, the Australian dollar has been seen as one of the standout ‘risk on’ currencies that
						tend to depreciate when global economic prospects weaken and/or risk-sentiment deteriorates. On that
						score, the Australian dollar has historically provided a pretty decent ‘natural’ hedge
						(Graph 2, left hand panel).

								Graph 2

					If the volatility in the Australian dollar is lower than that in overseas equity returns – as it has
						been in recent years (Graph 3) – that also reduces the need to take out an explicit hedge,
						because it just doesn’t form a large part of overall portfolio volatility.

								Graph 3

					There are several different ways to factor these considerations into a specific quantified hedge ratio.
						One approach is to calculate the hedge needed to minimise the variance of portfolio returns. I won’t
						plough through the formalities of how to do that here – and the calculations can be sensitive to
						assumptions. But the punchline is that – historically speaking – the Australian dollar’s
						strong correlation with US equities, and its low relative volatility, mean the minimum variance equity
						hedge ratio has been pretty low. Indeed on some measures it comes quite close to the average levels
						actually chosen by Australian industry super funds.9
					For some currencies, such as the Japanese yen, low hedge ratios for US assets have also been driven by
						high hedging costs,  reflecting material differentials in short-term interest rates
						.10 But this has not been a dominant factor in Australia
						(Graph 4).

								Graph 4

					The times, are they a-changin’?
					The debate on everyone’s mind is whether the paradigm underpinning those correlations I’ve just
						been through is now shifting.
					The oft-cited case for the prosecution is that, amidst the huge increase in market uncertainty earlier in
						2025 – a situation in which the US dollar would normally be expected to act as a safe haven
						– the dollar in fact depreciated: falling by around 8 per cent on a trade weighted basis
						relative to its January peak, with a little under half of this coming in the weeks following the
						announcement of the Liberation Day tariffs (Graph 5). Dire predictions abounded, including a
						rumoured mass exodus from US assets, and fears of the end of dollar hegemony in international capital
						markets.

								Graph 5

					Uncertainty obviously remains high, and there is still a great deal of water to flow under the bridge.
						But, to paraphrase Mark Twain, predictions of the death of the US dollar and the Australian hedging
						model appear somewhat premature, for four main reasons:

						There is little evidence yet that international investors have substantially reduced their holdings
							of US assets: indeed the latest data suggest that foreign capital continues to flow into
							the US (in net terms), particularly on the equity side (Graph 6). Capital inflows into Australia
							did pick up a little in the June quarter – but the numbers so far do not look materially out of
							line with historical averages (Graph 7).

										Graph 6

										Graph 7

						The correlation between movements in US equity prices and the Australian dollar remained close to its
							historical average through the recent market turmoil, with the Australian dollar initially
							depreciating sharply alongside falling equity prices. That is quite different to correlations with
							some of the other major currencies (Graph 2, right panel). 
						Implied volatility in the exchange rate between the Australian dollar and the US dollar has
							remained lower than that in US equities.
						The cost of hedging against FX risk for Australian investors has been little changed (Graph 4).

					Investors in some other countries do appear to have increased their hedging ratios in response to
						Liberation Day, with market attention focused on institutional investors in Europe and parts of Asia.
						Those additional hedging flows may have played some role in amplifying the US dollar’s decline
						for a period earlier in the year.11 In Australia, the super fund sector also increased its
						equity hedges in the June quarter (Graph 2) – but the pick-up was only small, and market
						participants report little current expectation of a more material increase in the near term.
					Some more structural challenges for super funds’ FX hedging
					But none of this means we should be complacent about the scope for a more material regime shift over time.
						Uncertainty remains elevated, and we are yet to see the full economic implications of the changes to US
						tariffs play out. It is encouraging therefore that many super funds are strengthening their capacity to
						think through and manage FX and other liquidity risks.
					That also matters because, even if super funds’ average hedge ratios change little in the near term,
						the size of the market-wide FX hedge book is set to grow significantly over longer horizons, for three
						reasons:

						As I noted at the start, total super fund assets are projected to grow from around
							150 per cent to 180 per cent of GDP over the next decade. 
						The share of this larger pie devoted to overseas assets is set to rise, given the size of the super
							fund pool relative to the stock of domestic financial assets.
						As super funds’ members age over time, they are likely to demand greater certainty of returns,
							driving super fund portfolios away from equity and towards fixed income. But FX hedge ratios for
							foreign currency fixed income assets are typically much higher than those for equities, reflecting
							the very different shape of asset returns and correlations.

					The first of these factors alone could see the superannuation sector’s total FX hedge book, currently
						estimated to be of the order of AUD½ trillion, to double over the next decade. The other two factors
						will increase this number by some further multiple over the coming years.
					Such changes would of course reflect prudent risk management on the part of individual firms. And they
						would barely touch the sides of a global FX swaps market that exceeds US$100 trillion in stock
						terms.12
						But they are large relative to the current size of the Australian dollar FX swaps market.13 And
						the terms on which FX hedges are typically offered to super funds today are relatively capital-intensive
						for the swap providers. So it is likely that super funds will have to extend and diversify their pool of
						hedge providers over time to avoid hitting concentration limits. They may also be asked to meet increased
						margining and collateral requirements on their hedging positions.
					Many super funds are already thinking hard about what these changes could mean for their future liquidity
						management.14 One aspect is ensuring they have sufficient resources
						to meet potential short-run liquidity needs – for example, to cover increased replacement costs for
						maturing FX hedges if the Australian dollar depreciates. Those potential liquidity needs appear
						manageable today under most scenarios. But they will grow over time as the hedge book increases in size.
						And the practice of using relatively short-term derivatives to hedge much longer term investment –
						though common amongst many institutional investment communities – means super funds are reliant on
						continuous access to functioning FX derivatives markets. If these markets were to become impaired such
						that rolling these hedges became difficult or prohibitively expensive, as occurred during episodes of
						US dollar funding stresses in both 2008 and 2020, super funds would either need to sell foreign
						assets or face unhedged foreign currency exposures for a period, both of which could be undesirable in a
						period of market volatility.15
					Australian banks also rely on the smooth functioning of such markets – in particular, to hedge their
						foreign-currency denominated funding back to Australian dollars to fund their (mostly) Australian dollar
						assets. However, their exposure is somewhat mitigated by the fact that their hedges are typically
						duration-matched to their funding.16
					System-wide liquidity risks are being explored in APRA’s inaugural system stress test, and we look
						forward to seeing the results of this work.17
					Staying on top of FX settlement risk in the region
					All of this increased FX activity may seem like good news for FX markets and hence for CLS – and
						well it may be. But against the backdrop of such a big increase in scale and a huge range of uncertain
						and unpredictable macro risks, the need to ensure we retain a laser focus on mitigating settlement risk
						has never been greater.
					The first priority, clearly, is to ensure that as many eligible transactions as possible go through CLS. I
						look forward to seeing the results of the new global survey on FX settlement data, designed by my old
						colleague Philippe Lintern and team at the Bank of England, and carried out as part of the BIS’ 2025
						Triennial exercise.18 And I would be interested to hear your estimates of
						how widely Australian firms active in FX use your service. Five years ago, CLS estimated that around
						75 per cent of Australia’s 20 largest super funds used CLS to settle their FX trades
						– which sounded good but left me wondering what the remaining 25 per cent did, and how
						this number has evolved since then.19 Perhaps you can enlighten me today! Given the growth
						expected in that sector it is important to pursue this issue with gusto.
					Just as global fragmentation poses risks to the macro outlook, so it also poses risks to the ongoing goal
						of eliminating FX settlement risk. As Table 1 shows, a number of key currencies in the Asia Pacific
						region remain outside CLS – specifically the Chinese Renminbi, the India Rupee, the New Taiwan
						Dollar and the Thai Baht. I do not underestimate the challenges involved, but we should do all we can,
						where we can. Extended cutoff times for CLS settlement could help with greater global reach too.
					Fragmentation, and the geopolitical risks that come with it, poses heightened cyber and operational risks
						– issues that I know have preoccupied you as a Board for some time.
					And of course there is always the possibility that rival payment systems, built on less sound principles
						could cannibalise transactions that currently go through CLS. I sympathise with you that it can be hard
						to keep up with the hype cycle on this front – from Distributed Ledgers to Central Bank Digital
						Currencies to today’s topic du jour, stablecoins. But it is important that you do,
						because we must ensure that whatever emerges from this process is as robust as what preceded it. That is
						why, here in Australia, we are experimenting with new ways of enabling central bank money to circulate on
						innovative payments platforms through Project Acacia.20 I look forward to hearing an update of
						CLS’ own work in this area.
					Conclusions
					Let me conclude.
					Your visit comes at a critical moment in the history of the global economic and financial system.
						Uncertainty is at an all-time high – and many of the principles on which we have long relied are in
						flux.
					Against that backdrop, I have devoted much of my remarks today to reviewing how fragmentation could change
						the way Australian investors approach currency risk management. So far, little fundamental seems to have
						changed – the Australian dollar has remained a well-functioning ‘natural’ hedge for
						global risky assets, and hedging costs are relatively low. But that could all change rapidly – and
						the structural trends towards growing super fund balances, much of which will have to be invested
						overseas, makes it ever more important that super funds in particular scale up their risk management and
						scenario planning capacity. Done successfully that should further add to other resilient features of the
						system – including the fact that super funds are mostly defined contribution (not defined benefit)
						schemes, are not levered, and have access to those deep and liquid FX markets that I described earlier.

					As a founder currency of CLS, a co-regulator and a leading global currency, we care deeply about
						furthering the mission of eliminating FX settlement risk. In that context, it is wonderful to see the
						progress CLS has made, and we look forward to continuing to do all we can to help in that endeavour.

							Endnotes
							I am grateful to Marcus Miller and George Tyler
								for their help in preparing these remarks, and to Sue Black, Matt Boge, Matthew Carter, Alison
								Clark, Ellis Connolly, Alice Frank, Jason Griffin, Gideon Holland, Sarah Hunter, Chris Kent, Brad
								Jones, Kristin Langwasser, Jahan Mand, Penny Smith, Geoff Stewart, Tim Taylor, Michael Thornley
								and David Wakeling for their advice and comments. *

							BIS (2022), ‘OTC Foreign Exchange Turnover
								in April 2022’. Preliminary results for the 2025 survey will be released later this month:
								BIS (2025), ‘2025 Triennial Central Bank Survey of Foreign Exchange and OTC Derivatives
								Markets’. 1

							Importantly, CLS greatly reduces the liquidity
								required to settle these payments. While settlement occurs on a gross basis, the funding required
								from each participant is based on a multilateral net calculation of its expected position in each
								CLS-eligible currency. For more details, see Dalzell S (2025), ‘CLS and FX: Pioneering
								Partnership with Pivotal Purpose’, CLS. 2

							For any settlement risk nerds amongst you, the
								1996 Allsopp Report is the key text from this period: BIS (1996), ‘Settlement Risk in
								Foreign Exchange Transactions’, March. 3

							For a broader overview of recent developments in
								Australian FX markets, see Kent C (2025), ‘Australia’s External Position and the
									Evolution of the FX Markets’, Address to Australian Financial Markets
								Association/Bloomberg, Sydney, 29 April. 4

							Of the first 10 currencies in the table,
								turnover in the Hong Kong dollar, Singapore dollar and Swiss franc also ranks well above their
								respective country’s GDP rankings – but Hong Kong and Singapore have FX pegs, and
								Switzerland retains FX as an active policy tool, where required. 5

							A fourth potential factor that might be
								supporting Australian dollar activity is a practice whereby an Australian FX liquidity provider
								may on-book an FX transaction initially undertaken in Australia to another entity within the same
								group but in a different regional location (e.g. Singapore or Hong Kong) for balance sheet and
								risk management purposes. The report on foreign exchange turnover in Australia conducted
								semi-annually on behalf of the Australian FX Committee suggests that such ‘related
								party’ business makes up a greater share of Australian-based institutions total turnover
								then the global average: Armour C and J Beardsley (2023), ‘Developments
									in Foreign Exchange and Over-the-counter Derivatives Markets’, RBA
								Bulletin, March. But the historical lack of data by currency means it is impossible
								to know if this has affected the Australian dollar disproportionately. 6

							The outlook for the size of the superannuation
								sector is set out in RBAFOI-242512.
								An industry assessment of the global ranking of the sector is given in SMC Australia (2025),
								‘Australians’ Super Savings on Track to Become Second Largest Globally by the Early
								2030s’, 24 February. And one estimate of the share of future super inflows likely to be
								invested in overseas assets (70 per cent) is set out by Australian Super, the largest
								single superannuation fund, here: AustralianSuper (2024), ‘AustralianSuper Expands
								International Equities Team with Senior Investment Management Appointments’,
								28 November. 7

							Every four years, the Australian Bureau of
								Statistics (ABS) carries out a Survey of Foreign Currency Exposure, funded by the RBA. The survey
								measures Australian businesses’ foreign currency exposures and the extent to which they are
								hedged. The latest survey was carried out in 2022 and is summarised here: Atkin T and J Harris
								(2023), ‘Foreign
									Currency Exposure and Hedging in Australia’, RBA Bulletin, March. 8

							A simple minimum variance hedge ratio can be
								expressed as 1 minus the product of (i) the correlation between the return on offshore
								assets and the relevant Australian dollar forward rates and (ii) the ratio of the volatilities in
								returns on offshore assets and the Australia dollar forward rates. For an excellent exposition of
								this analysis, see Franulovich R (2025), ‘Superannuation FX Hedging Drivers and
								Outlook’, Westpac, 31 March. 9

							The cost of an FX swap is a function of the
								difference between the interest rate paid out on US dollars and the interest rate received
								on the domestic currency (plus execution costs and the liquidity/opportunity cost of meeting any
								variation margin or collateral requirements). The impact of hedging costs on recent exchange rate
								developments is discussed further in a recent BIS paper: HS Shin, P Wooldridge and D Xia (2025),
								‘US Dollar’s Slide in April 2025: The Role of FX Hedging’, BIS
									Bulletin, No 105. 10

							Of course, correlation does not imply
								causation: the increase in hedging and the depreciation of the US dollar may have been
								responding to a common cause. For more on these issues, see Shin, Wooldridge and Xia, n 10. 11

							Shin HS (2025), ‘Structural Changes in the
								Global Financial System and the Transmission of Financial Conditions’, BIS Speech,
								19 May. 12

							For estimates of the size of the AUD FX swaps
								market, see Bristow L and M Tang (2024), ‘The
									Australian Repo Market: A Short History and Recent Evolution’, RBA
								Bulletin, July 2024. 13

							See, for instance, ISDA (2025),
								‘Australian Superannuation Funds: Current and Future Uses of Derivatives’, May. 14

							For fuller descriptions of the functioning and
								vulnerabilities in global FX hedging markets, see Shin HS (2023), ‘The Dollar-based
								Financial System through the Window of the FX Swaps Market’, Paper presented to Peterson
								Institute for International Economics Conference, Washington DC, 24 March; Shin, n 12. Some
								of these issues are also discussed in RBA (2025), ‘Chapter 3:
									Resilience of the Australian Financial System’, Financial Stability
									Review, April. Super funds’ risk management practices are already evolving to
								address such risks, for example, through the use of staggered maturity hedges, or
								‘ladders’. 15

							Bellrose K and Norman D (2019), ‘The
									Nature of Australian Banks’ Offshore Funding’, RBA Bulletin,
								December. 16

							For more details about the system stress test,
								see APRA (2025), ‘APRA Corporate Plan 2025-26’. 17

							Lintern P (2024), ‘Once More unto the
								Breach’, Speech at FX Europe, 3 December. 18

							Jones S (2020), ‘Super Fund FX Trades at
								Risk, Investment Magazine, 3 February. 19

							See for instance: RBA (2024), ‘Project
									Acacia – Exploring the Role of Digital Money in Wholesale Tokenised Asset
									Markets’, Consultation Paper, November; Jones B (2025), ‘Anti-fragility and the Financial
									System’, Opening Remarks to FINSIA: The Regulators, Sydney, 12 September. 20

	 Back to top

					Sign up for email and SMS alerts
					Subscribe

					Follow us

								Facebook

								X

								LinkedIn

								YouTube

								Instagram

								Flickr

				Affiliate sites

					Banknotes
					Unreserved
					Museum
					Council of Financial Regulators
					Australian Foreign Exchange Committee
					H.C. Coombs Centre

					The Reserve Bank of Australia supports the
					Foundation for Children.

				The materials on this webpage are subject to copyright and their use is subject to the terms and conditions set out in the
				Copyright and Disclaimer Notice.
				© Reserve Bank of Australia, 2001–2026. All rights reserved.

				The Reserve Bank of Australia acknowledges the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples of Australia as the Traditional Custodians of this land, and recognises their continuing connection to country.
				We pay our respects to their Elders, past and present. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples should be aware that this website may contain the names, images and voices of people who are now deceased.

			References

					For Media
					Judicial Notice
					Privacy
					Accessibility
					Procurement
					Glossary
					Schedules & Events

					Report a Vulnerability
					Scams

						Public Interest Disclosure

						Access to Information

