Businesses and organisations > Corporate tax measures and assurance > ...

> Guide to the taxation of financial arrangements (TOFA) > Elective methods



Elective methods
If eligible, the elective tax-timing methods.

Last updated 16 June 2023




      On this page

      Common requirements

      Foreign exchange retranslation method

      Fair value method

      Reliance on financial reports method

      Hedging financial arrangements method


If eligible, an entity can use one or more of the elective tax-timing methods.

Although more than one elective tax-timing method can apply to a financial arrangement,
the priority rules in section 230-40 determine which tax-timing method takes priority
when calculating gains and losses.

The elective tax-timing methods can help reduce compliance costs. This is because the
fair value, foreign exchange retranslation and reliance on financial reports methods allow
entities to use their financial reports to work out the amount of gain or loss they made
from their financial arrangements and how much is attributed to a particular income year
for income tax purposes.

The 4 elective tax-timing methods are:

   foreign exchange retranslation (#Foreign_exchange_retranslation_method)

   fair value (#Fair_value_method)

   reliance on financial reports (#Reliance_on_financial_reports_method)

   hedging financial arrangements. (#Hedging_financial_arrangements_method)
See Section 230-40 – Methods for taking gain or loss into account
(/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-40).



Common requirements
For an entity to be eligible to elect to apply an elective tax-timing method (except for the
qualifying forex account election) for an income year, the following common requirements
must be met:

  The entity must prepare financial reports for the income year, according to the
  accounting principles or comparable standards for accounting made under a
  foreign law.

  The financial report must be audited according to the auditing principles or
  comparable standards for auditing made under a foreign law.


Consolidated groups

Where a consolidated financial report deals with the affairs of all entities in the tax
consolidated group, the consolidated financial report can be used to determine whether
the group meets eligibility requirements.

Where stand-alone financial reports deal with the affairs of all entities in the tax
consolidated group, such reports can be used to determine whether the group meets
eligibility requirements. In such cases, all members of the tax consolidated group must
prepare stand-alone financial reports to satisfy the requirements.

Where the affairs of the tax consolidated group are reflected in both the consolidated
financial report and stand-alone financial reports, the group can use either report type to
determine whether it meets eligibility requirements – however it must make this choice
consistently.


MEC groups

For a multiple entry consolidated (MEC) group, the provisional head company's
consolidated financial report may not reflect the financial arrangements of the entire MEC
group. A consolidated report prepared by an eligible tier-1 entity, which is the provisional
head company, most likely would not reflect the financial arrangements of other eligible
tier-1 entities or of its wholly-owned subsidiaries.

In such a situation, pursuant to section 230-525, the provisional head company may be
able to rely on a consolidated financial report prepared by the top company to satisfy the
eligibility requirement that you prepare a financial report (for example, under
paragraph 230-210(2)(a)). However, whether the provisional head company can rely on
the consolidated financial report for these purposes depends on the particular case.
See Section 230-525 – Consolidated financial reports (/law/view/document?
docid=PAC/19970038/230-525).


Non-consolidated tax entities

Where an entity is not part of a tax consolidated group and does not itself prepare a
financial report, it may still be able to satisfy the eligibility requirements. To do this, it can
use a consolidated financial report prepared by another entity that properly reflects the
first entity's affairs.


Financial arrangements subject to elective tax-timing methods

An elective tax-timing method will only apply to financial arrangements that an entity
starts to have in the income year in which the election is made or later income years.

However, an elective tax-timing method can apply to existing arrangements where the
entity made both the:

  transitional election for existing financial arrangements

  election to apply the tax-timing method on or before the first lodgment date of the
  entity's tax return that occurs after TOFA first applies.


Gains or losses recognised in financial reports

An elective tax-timing method will only apply to a financial arrangement if the gains or
losses from the financial arrangement are recognised or recorded in the relevant audited
financial report.

However, an elective tax-timing method may also apply to transactions that are not
recognised in the report if they are intra-group transactions of an accounting
consolidated group. This requirement will be satisfied where both the following apply:

  The entity is a member of an accounting consolidated group.

  The financial arrangement is not recognised in an audited financial report only
  because it is an intra-group transaction under AASB 127.

Financial arrangements between members of a consolidated group or MEC group are not
covered by this requirement because the single entity rule in section 701-1 operates to
treat them as not being financial arrangements for all income tax purposes.


When an election ceases to apply

Once made, an elective tax-timing method cannot be revoked.

However, an election to apply an elective tax-timing method will cease to have effect
from the start of an income year if the entity ceases to meet the eligibility requirements to
make the election.
Where the elective tax-timing method ceases to apply, the entity must make certain
balancing adjustments for the relevant financial arrangements.

Entities can make new elections where they again satisfy the relevant requirements.


  Example: ceasing to satisfy the eligibility requirements

  Staples Co is subject to TOFA. Staples Co elected to apply the fair value method to its financial
  arrangements in its income year ending 30 June 2011.

  For the year ending 30 June 2013, Staples Co did not prepare financial reports according to the
  relevant accounting principles. As it ceased to meet the eligibility requirements to make the fair
  value method election in that income year, the fair value method ceased to have effect from 1 July
  2012 and certain balancing adjustments must be made in respect of Staples Co's relevant financial
  arrangements.




Foreign exchange retranslation method
The foreign exchange retranslation method is relevant to entities with arrangements
denominated in, or determined by, reference to a foreign currency. For an entity that has
made a functional currency election under Subdivision 960-D, this means a currency that
is not its applicable functional currency.

Under AASB 121 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (AASB 121) or a
comparable accounting standard made under a foreign law, certain gains and losses
attributable to currency exchange rate movements must be recognised in profit or loss in
an entity's financial reports.

The foreign exchange retranslation method only applies to these gains and losses.

An entity that meets the common requirements can elect to apply the foreign exchange
retranslation method to all financial arrangements, and those arrangements subject to
Subdivision 775-F (general election).

Alternatively, an entity can elect to apply the foreign exchange retranslation method to
one or more of its qualifying forex accounts (a qualifying forex account election).

The retranslation method will not apply to a financial arrangement if either the fair value
or reliance on financial reports election applies to that particular arrangement, or to the
extent that the hedging financial arrangements election applies in relation to that
arrangement.

The gain or loss recognised in an income year under the retranslation method will
generally be the same as the amount recognised under AASB 121 or its foreign equivalent
in the entity's profit or loss. However, an amount will not be recognised if the amount
recognised in the entity's profit or loss has been previously recognised in equity.

See Subdivision 775-F – Retranslation under foreign exchange translation election under
Subdivision 230-D (/law/view/document?locid=PAC/19970038/SDiv775-F).


General election

Where an entity makes the general retranslation election, the foreign exchange
retranslation method will apply to financial arrangements that satisfy the following:

  The entity starts to have the financial arrangement in the income year in which it
  makes the election or in a later income year.

  An amount attributable to changes in currency exchange rates must be recognised
  in profit or loss in the financial reports as per AASB 121 or a comparable accounting
  standard made under a foreign law.

Where the general election ceases to apply, certain balancing adjustments must be made.
However, the balancing adjustments are made only to the extent the balancing
adjustments are reasonably attributable to currency exchange rate movements.


Qualifying forex account election

Where an entity makes a qualifying forex account election, the foreign exchange
retranslation method will apply to the qualifying forex account for which it made the
election.

A qualifying forex account is defined in section 995-1 as an account denominated in a
foreign currency that has the primary purpose of facilitating transactions or is a credit
card account.

A qualifying forex account election will apply:

  from the time when the entity starts to have the arrangement if the election is
  made before the entity starts to have the arrangement

  from the start of the income year in which the election is made if the entity makes
  an election after it starts to have the arrangement.

See Section 995-1 – Definitions (/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/995-1).

Arrangement held prior to making the election

An entity can make this election even if it starts to have the qualifying forex account
election before making the election.

However, such an election will not apply to an account that was created before the start
of the first year TOFA began applying to the entity, unless that entity has made an
election for TOFA to apply to its existing financial arrangements.

For these qualifying forex accounts held prior to making the election to which TOFA
applies, the entity must make a balancing adjustment according to Subdivision 230-G
calculated as if the taxpayer had ceased the arrangement for its fair value at the time
when the election was applied to the arrangement. However, the balancing adjustment
will only recognise an amount to the extent it is reasonably attributable to a currency
exchange rate effect.


  Example: applying the general retranslation election to a US$
  loan

  Yee Imports Co (Yee) is a large Australian company that is eligible and makes the foreign exchange
  retranslation method – general election. Yee has a loan of US$1,000 for which gains and losses
  attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates must be recognised in profit or loss in
  accordance with AASB 121. Under the loan agreement, Yee does not have to repay any principal
  until the end of year 4.

  When Yee entered into the loan, it had a liability in Australian dollars (A$) of $2,000
  (A$1 = US$0.50). By the end of year one, the Australian dollar had appreciated against the US
  dollar, such that the A$ value of the loan decreased to $1,333. For accounting purposes, a profit of
  $667 is recognised. This means for tax purposes, a $667 gain is recognised.

  In year 2, a gain of $83 is recognised as the Australian dollar value of the loan has decreased from
  $1,333 to $1,250. In year 3, the Australian dollar value of the loan has increased to $1,428 and a
  loss of $178 is recognised.

  At the end of year 4, when the loan is repaid, Yee performs a balancing adjustment calculation
  under Subdivision 230-G and works out that it makes a $110 loss.


                                        Year 0      Year 1           Year 2      Year 3      Year 4


     Amount of debt (US$)               $1,000      $1,000           $1,000      $1,000      0


     A$ currency                        0.50        0.75             0.80        0.70        0.65


     A$ value of debt                   $2,000      $1,333           $1,250      $1,428      $1,538


     Tax treatment under the            0           $667 gain        $83 gain    $178 loss   $110
                                                    ($2,000 –        ($1,333 –   ($1,250 –   loss*
     foreign exchange
                                                    $1,333)          $1,250)     $1,428)
     retranslation method


  * Subdivision 230-G balancing adjustment applies when the financial arrangement ceases.
The foreign exchange retranslation method only applies to a gain or loss attributable to
currency exchange rate movements. The accruals and realisation methods may apply to
the gain or loss not attributable to currency exchange rate movements.



Fair value method
The fair value method is a tax-timing method that measures a gain or loss from a financial
arrangement as the change in its fair value between 2 points in time. The gain or loss for a
particular period is the increase or decrease in its fair value between the beginning and
end of the period, adjusted for amounts paid or received during the period.

The term 'fair value' is not a defined term under the tax Acts. However, AASB 139
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (AASB 139) defines fair value as 'the
amount for which an asset could be exchanged or a liability settled, between
knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm's length transaction'.

The fair value method can give rise to unrealised gains and losses from financial
arrangements being brought to tax.

To be eligible to make the fair value method election in an income year, an entity must
meet the common requirements.


Financial arrangements subject to this method

If an election to apply the fair value method is made, it will apply to financial
arrangements that meet both the following requirements:

  The entity starts to have the financial arrangement in the income year in which it
  makes the election, and in later income years.

  The financial arrangement is either an asset or liability is required (whether or not
  as a result of a choice made) to be classified or designated or (in whole or in part)
  otherwise treated in the entity's financial reports as at fair value through profit or
  loss.

Under AASB 139, the following are generally recognised at fair value through profit or
loss:

  a financial asset or financial liability held for trading

  a derivative.

AASB 139 states that trading generally reflects active and frequent buying and selling,
and that financial instruments held for trading are generally used with the objective of
generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealer's margin.


Equity interests
The fair value can apply to financial arrangements that are equity interests under
Division 974, as well as certain rights to receive and obligations to provide equity interests
(section 230-50 financial arrangements), subject to the satisfaction of the fair value tax-
timing requirements.

However, an entity that has issued its own equity interests cannot fair value those equity
interests. This rule is directed at ensuring, for example, that an entity does not obtain a
tax deduction for dividends paid.

See Division 974 – Debt and equity interests (/law/view/document?
locid=PAC/19970038/Div974).


Splitting financial arrangements into two

Under section 230-235, where only part of a financial arrangement is classified or
designated at fair value through profit or loss, that part of the arrangement is treated as a
financial arrangement subject to the fair value method. The remaining part of the financial
arrangement will be treated as a separate financial arrangement and will be subject to
another tax-timing method.

See Section 230-235 – Splitting financial arrangements into 2 financial arrangements
(/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-235).


Tax treatment

Where a fair value election applies to a financial arrangement, the gains or losses for an
income year will be determined by the accounting principles.

Where the Australian accounting principles, or comparable standards made under a
foreign law, require that a fair value measurement through profit or loss be used to
determine accounting profits or losses on financial arrangements for an income year,
these gains and losses shall be used to determine the taxpayer's gain or loss for an
income year from those financial arrangements.


Franked distributions

Franked distributions (received either directly by the taxpayer or indirectly through a
partnership or trust) and rights to receive franked distributions (either directly or
indirectly) must not be included as a gain or loss that is brought to account according to
the fair value method.

Excluding franked distributions from the scope of the fair value election ensures these
distributions will remain assessable according to section 44 of the ITAA 1936. Assessing
the distribution under section 44 rather than under TOFA will ensure that the imputation
system works appropriately for distributions such that franking credits allocated to such
distributions are available to the recipient in the income year in which the distribution is
taxed to the recipient.
See Section 44 of the ITAA 1936 – Dividends (/law/view/document?
docid=PAC/19360027/44).


Valuation issues

The term fair value is not defined in the tax acts. The term should take its ordinary
commercial meaning. In this regard, AASB 139 defines fair value as '… the price that would
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date'.

The valuation methods used, and the guidance, definitions and requirements for the
elective fair value method generally should be the same as those used for the fair value
valuation in relevant accounting principles. As a result, if taxpayers use fair value
estimates in their profit or loss accounts that accord with commercially acceptable
valuation techniques, they can generally use the same estimates for the elective fair value
method.


  Example: applying the fair value method to an option

  Apple Co meets the eligibility requirements and makes the fair value method election.

  Apple Co paid $10 to purchase an option to acquire a share in Banana Co.

  The fair value method will apply to Apple Co's option to acquire a share in Banana Co as the option
  is a derivative recognised at fair value through profit or loss for accounting purposes.

  The fair value of the option at the end of each year is set out in the table below. Apple Co sells the
  option at the end of year 3 for $20.

  Apple Co makes a fair value gain of $5 in year one ($15 – $10), a fair value gain of $8 ($23 – $15)
  in year 2. At the end of year 3, when Apple Co disposes of its option for $20, it performs a
  balancing adjustment calculation under Subdivision 230-G and works out that it makes a $3 loss.

  During the term of the arrangement, Apple Co recognises a net gain of $10, which is brought to
  account for tax purposes, reflecting the $10 overall economic gain overall; that is, a cost of $10
  and proceeds of $20.


     Type                                           Cost      Year 1           Year 2            Year 3


     Acquisition cost                               $10       –                –                 –



     Fair value of option price at year end         –         $15              $23               –



     Disposal of option                             –         –                –                 $20
     Tax treatment under the fair value              –        $5 ($15 –         $8 ($23 –      – $3*
     method                                                   $10)              $15)


  * Subdivision 230-G balancing adjustment applies when the financial arrangement ceases.




Reliance on financial reports method
Broadly, an entity that makes a valid reliance on financial reports election can rely on its
financial reports for the purposes of complying with its tax obligations for its financial
arrangements.

This election aligns the tax treatment of relevant financial arrangements to the accounting
treatment of those arrangements.

This election reduces the administration and compliance costs of the taxation of financial
arrangements.

The financial reports election takes precedence over other elective and default tax-timing
methods, but only to the extent that the hedging financial arrangements method does not
apply to the financial arrangement.


Eligibility requirements

To be eligible to make the reliance on financial reports method election in an income year,
an entity must satisfy the following requirements:

  The entity must prepare a financial report for that income year according to the
  accounting principles that is audited according to the auditing principles.

  The entity's auditor has not qualified the auditor's report on the financial report for
  that income year or any of the last 4 financial years in a way that is relevant to the
  tax treatment of financial arrangements.

  The entity's accounting systems and controls and internal governance processes
  are reliable.

  No report of an audit or review conducted in the income year or any of the
  preceding 4 income years included an adverse assessment of accounting systems
  relevant to the tax treatment of financial arrangements.

Once made, the election to apply the reliance of financial reports method is irrevocable.

However, the election to apply the reliance on financial reports method will cease to apply
if any of the eligibility requirements are no longer satisfied. The election will cease to
apply from the start of the income year in which this occurs. The entity must then make
balancing adjustments under subsection 230-430(2).
  Example: qualification in an auditor's report

  The auditor's report on the financial reports of Scruffy Ltd has been qualified in relation to the
  amount of directors' fees recognised in the books.

  The qualification will not prevent Scruffy Ltd from making a valid election to apply the reliance on
  financial reports method, as the directors' fees have no impact on the recognition and
  measurement of gains and losses on the relevant financial arrangements.


See Section 230-430 – Balancing adjustment if election ceases to apply
(/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-430).


Financial arrangements subject to this method

The reliance on financial reports method applies to financial arrangements that meet the
following requirements:

  The entity starts to have the financial arrangement in the income year in which it
  makes the election or later income years.

  The arrangement is recognised in the financial reports relied on.

  It is reasonably expected that the amount of the overall gain or loss the entity
  makes from the arrangement determined in accordance with the financial reports
  is, or will be, the same as the amount of the overall gain or loss the entity makes as
  determined according to TOFA, if the reliance on financial reports method election
  did not apply (same overall gain or loss test).

  The results of the method used to determine the gain or loss on a financial
  arrangement for each income year in the financial reports is not substantially
  different to the results from the methods that would be applied by the rest of TOFA
  if the reliance on financial reports method election did not apply (results not
  substantially different test).

However, the election will cease to apply to a particular financial arrangement if any of
the above requirements are no longer satisfied for that financial arrangement. The
election will cease to apply to that financial arrangement from the start of the income
year in which this occurs. When this happens, the entity must make balancing adjustment
under subsection 230-430(5).

See Subsection 230-430(5) (/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-430).

Applying the tests

An entity must assume that both a fair value method election and a foreign exchange
retranslation general election have been made when determining whether:
  an entity reasonably expects to make the same overall gain or loss on a financial
  arrangement

  the results of the financial reports method are not substantially different from the
  results from the methods that would apply if the financial reports method did not
  apply.

This prevents taxpayers from needing to have valid elections in place solely to ensure the
financial reports method applies to certain financial arrangements.

However, in applying these tests, do not assume that an election for portfolio treatment of
fees, premiums and discounts is made under the accruals method under Subdivision 230-
B.

If the election for portfolio treatment of fees, premiums and discounts has not been
made, the relevant comparisons in applying these tests are the accruals/realisation
methods as if that election was not made.

If the election for portfolio treatment of fees, premiums and discounts has been made,
the relevant comparisons in applying these tests are with the accruals/realisation
methods on the basis that election has been made.

See Subdivision 230-B – The accruals/realisation methods (/law/view/document?
locid=PAC/19970038/SDiv230-B).

Eliminated accounting intra-group transactions

As stated above, for the financial reports method to apply to a financial arrangement, the
arrangement must be recognised in the financial report.

However, where a financial arrangement is not recognised in the consolidated financial
report merely because it has been eliminated as an intra-group transaction of the
accounting consolidated group, paragraph 230-410(1)(c) is taken to be satisfied in
relation to a financial arrangement.

As a consequence, the financial reports method can be applied to the eliminated
accounting intra-group transaction.

See Section 230-410 – Financial arrangements to which the election applies
(/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-410).


Tax treatment

If an election to rely on financial reports applies to a financial arrangement, the gain or
loss made from the arrangement for the income year is the gain or loss that the
accounting principles require the entity to recognise in profit or loss from that
arrangement for that income year.
For eliminated accounting intra-group transactions, the gain or loss made from the
arrangement for the income year is the gain or loss that the accounting principles would
have required the entity to recognise in profit or loss from that arrangement for that
income year if the arrangement had not been an intra-group transaction.

Impaired debt arrangements

Where a debt arrangement that is subject to the reliance on financial reports election
subsequently becomes impaired, the arrangement ceases to be subject to the reliance on
financial reports method, except where the arrangement is fair valued. This is because
the arrangement ceases to satisfy the requirement that the differences in the results of
the accounting method and the compounding accruals method are reasonably expected
to be not substantial.

The reason for this is that the compounding accruals method does not recognise a
provision for doubtful debts. Hence, the relevant financial arrangement will become
subject to the remainder of TOFA, that is, to a tax-timing method other than the reliance
on financial reports method.

Where a debt arrangement that is subject to the reliance on financial reports method
becomes impaired, and the financial reports election ceases to apply to it, the
arrangement is specifically precluded from being subject to a balancing adjustment. The
reason for this is that if a balancing adjustment were applied at the time the financial
arrangement becomes impaired, the taxpayer would receive an immediate deduction for
the impairment of the debt arrangement. Such a result is contrary to the general policy in
relation to doubtful debts for financial arrangements that are not subject to the fair value
election.



Hedging financial arrangements method
Entities enter into various hedging arrangements to manage their exposure to risks such
as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For example, a foreign currency
hedge can protect an entity against the foreign currency exchange risk that arises from
the purchase of machinery in a foreign currency at a future date.

For income tax purposes, gains and losses on arrangements may be taxed on a different
basis (for example, realisation and accruals). Where a financial arrangement is used to
hedge the risk in relation to another arrangement, and each are taxed on a different basis,
the effectiveness of the hedge, in a post-tax sense, is reduced.

Tax mismatches could also occur where gains or losses made on an underlying hedged
item are taxed on capital account, whereas the gains or losses made on the hedging
financial arrangement are brought to account on revenue account.

Although the outcomes under the hedging financial arrangements method will not
necessarily align with accounting principles, this method broadly reduces post-tax
mismatches ensuring that gains and losses from hedging financial arrangements are
included in taxable income at the same time as those made from the hedged items are
recognised for tax purposes. This method also matches the tax classification or status of
a hedging financial arrangement gain or loss with that of the hedged item.

To be eligible to make the hedging financial arrangements method election in an income
year, an entity must meet the common requirements. If the hedging method election is
not made, an entity cannot use the hedging financial arrangements method for tax
purposes, irrespective of whether a financial arrangement is a hedge for accounting
purposes.

Once made, the hedging financial arrangements election cannot be revoked.


Financial arrangements subject to this method

The hedging financial arrangements method will apply to a financial arrangement if the
following criteria are satisfied:

  the arrangement is a hedging financial arrangement

  the entity starts to have the arrangement in the income year in which the election
  is made or later income years.

The hedging financial arrangements method will not apply to a financial arrangement if
the arrangement is:

  a financial arrangement as defined under section 230-50 unless it is issued by the
  relevant entity and is a foreign currency hedge

  subject to an exception contained in subsection 230-330(3), (4) or (5).

Hedging financial arrangement

A financial arrangement is defined in section 230-335 to be a hedging financial
arrangement if:

  it is a derivative financial arrangement or a foreign currency hedge

  the entity creates, acquires or applies the arrangement for the purpose of hedging
  a risk or risk in relation to a hedged item

  at the time the entity creates, acquires or applies the arrangement, it is a hedging
  instrument for accounting purposes

  it is recorded as a hedging instrument in the entity's financial reports in the income
  year in which the rights or obligations are created, acquired or applied.

Derivative financial arrangement
A derivative financial arrangement is defined in section 230-350 as a financial
arrangement where:

  its value changes in response to changes in a specified variable or variables

  it requires no net investment, or there is such a requirement, but the net
  investment is smaller than would be required for other types of financial
  arrangements that would be expected to have a similar response to changes in
  market factors.

Foreign currency hedge

A foreign currency hedge is defined in section 230-350 as a financial arrangement where:

  its value changes in response to changes in a specified variable or variables but is
  not a derivative financial arrangement

  it hedges a risk in relation to movements in currency exchange rates.

Tax extension hedges

Generally, only those hedging arrangements that satisfy the hedge accounting rules will
satisfy the requirements of the hedging financial arrangements method. However, in
limited situations, the hedging financial arrangements method will apply to hedging
financial arrangements that would not ordinarily meet accounting hedging treatment
(subsection 230-335(3)).

Partial hedges

Generally, the whole financial arrangement must be a hedging financial arrangement.
However, section 230-340 treats a part of a financial arrangement as a separate financial
arrangement where it is used for a partial hedge (such as a forward contract or a
proportionate hedge).

For more information, see:

  Section 230-335 – Hedged financial arrangement and hedged item
  (/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-335)

  Section 230-350 – Derivative financial arrangement and foreign currency hedge
  (/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-350)

  Section 230-340 – Generally whole arrangement must be hedging financial
  arrangement (/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-340)

Hedged item

A hedged item is defined in subsection 230-335(10) to be one of the items listed in that
subsection (for example, an asset, a liability, a firm commitment), or a part of such an
item, in which an entity hedges a risk.
An anticipated dividend is deemed to be a hedged item if it is of the kind referred to in
subsection 230-335(4).

Where the hedged item is a net investment in a foreign operation that is carried on
through a company in which an entity holds shares, or through a subsidiary company of
the entity, the hedged item is deemed for the purposes of tax classification or status
matching in the table in subsection 230-310(4) to be either the shares or some other
interest (such as long-term intra-group debt) in that company.

See Subsection 230-335 – Hedged financial arrangement and hedged item
(/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-335).

'One-in, all-in' principle

A fundamental principle underlying the hedging election is that the election applies to all
accounting hedges and would-be accounting hedges (those where the entity does not
satisfy the documentation requirements under this method) on a 'one-in, all-in' basis. This
also applies to anticipated hedges in the same manner.

Under this principle, an entity that makes an election to apply the hedging financial
arrangements method must apply this method to all of its hedging financial
arrangements.


Failure to comply with method

Failure to comply with the record-keeping requirements in sections 230-355 and 230-
360, and the requirement in section 230-365 that the effectiveness of the hedge be
assessed, can have the following implications (pursuant to section 230-385):

  The hedging financial arrangements method election will not apply to hedging
  financial arrangements the entity starts to have after the time those requirements
  are not met until such time as determined by the ATO.

  Where section 230-360 has not been satisfied for an existing hedging financial
  arrangement, we may determine the appropriate basis of allocation for gains and
  losses from the hedging financial arrangement in a way that satisfies section 230-
  360.

Where this occurs, pursuant to section 230-380 we may still:

  treat the requirements of section 230-355, 230-360 or 230-365 as having been
  met

  impose additional record-keeping requirements

  determine the appropriate basis of allocation for gains and losses from the hedging
  financial arrangement in a way that satisfies section 230-360.

See Section 230-385 – Consequences of failure to meet requirements
(/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-385).


Existing hedging financial arrangements

If an entity made a transitional election for TOFA to apply to its existing financial
arrangements, it can also elect to apply the hedging financial arrangements method to
those existing hedging financial arrangements if:

  the election to apply the hedging financial arrangements method is made on or
  before the first lodgment date that occurs after the start of the income year in
  which TOFA begins to apply

  at or soon after making the election, the entity satisfies the record-keeping
  requirements in section 230-355 and section 230-360

  the entity satisfies the hedge-effectiveness requirements in section 230-365 at all
  times from when they created, acquired or applied the arrangement.

However, the tax status matching rules under subsection 230-340(4) cannot apply to
existing hedging financial arrangements that have been transitioned into TOFA. Instead,
tax classification or status is determined pursuant to subsection 230-310(3).


Documentation requirements

The recording requirements an entity must make under section 230-355 include both:

  details that are required under the accounting principles

  terms of the determinations it makes under section 230-360.

The terms of the determinations that an entity makes under section 230-360 must show
the basis on which the entity will allocate gains and losses from a hedging financial
arrangement for tax purposes.

The determinations must be objective and result in a record of both the:

  time at which the gain or loss from the hedging financial arrangement is taken into
  account for TOFA purposes

  way in which the gain or loss will be dealt with under section 230-310.

To satisfy the requirement of recording the terms of the determinations an entity makes
under section 230-360, it can do either of the following:

  separately record the details required by that section for each of its hedging
  financial arrangements

  make a common record, such as a hedge master documentation, for each of
  several identified classes of hedging financial arrangements that the entity has.
  This will be sufficient where there is an objective link between the common record
  and the hedging financial arrangement.

An example of the terms of a determination made under paragraph 230-355(1)(c) is
provided in Appendix – Sample tax hedging documentation (/businesses-and-
organisations/corporate-tax-measures-and-assurance/taxation-of-financial-
arrangements-tofa/guide-to-the-taxation-of-financial-arrangements-tofa/appendix-
sample-tax-hedging-documentation?
anchor=Appendix___sample_tax_hedging_documentat#Appendix___sample_tax_hedging_documentat).

For more information, see:

  Section 230-355 – Recording requirements (/law/view/document?
  docid=PAC/19970038/230-355)

  Section 230-360 – Determining basis for allocating gain or loss
  (/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-360)

  Section 230-365 – Effectiveness of the hedge (/law/view/document?
  docid=PAC/19970038/230-365).

When the record must be made

The time by which the documentation must be in place differs for existing hedging
financial arrangements (under a transitional election) and hedging financial arrangements
starting from the time TOFA begins.

Existing hedging financial arrangements – transitional election

If an entity started to have a hedging financial arrangement before entering into TOFA,
the entity could have elected to have TOFA apply to that arrangement (sub-item 104(2) of
Schedule 1 to the TOFA Act).

Pursuant to sub-item 104(9)(c) of Schedule 1 to the TOFA Act, the hedging record must
be in place:

    … at, or soon after, the time you make the election, you have in place records in
    relation to the arrangement that satisfy the requirements of section 230-355 and
    section 230-360 (other than subparagraph 230-360(2)(c)(ii)).

In general, the necessary hedging documentation for existing hedging financial
arrangements must be in place at, or soon after, the time the hedging election is made.

Hedging financial arrangements from 1 July 2010

For hedging financial arrangements the entity started to have from the time TOFA begins
to apply to its financial arrangements, subsection 230-355(3) states:

    The record must be made or in place, either:

    (a) at, or soon after, the time when you create, acquire or apply the hedging financial
    arrangement

    (b) at such other time as is provided for in the regulations for the purposes of this
    paragraph.

If TOFA begins to apply to the entity from 1 July 2010 and the hedging financial
arrangements method is elected, the required records for the hedging financial
arrangements must be in place at the same time the hedging financial arrangement is
created, acquired or applied. It is not sufficient to put relevant tax documentation in place
when the hedging election is made.

For more information, see:

  Sub-item 104(9) of Schedule 1 to the TOFA Act (/law/view/document?
  docid=PAC/20090015/Sch1-Cl104)

  Subsection 230-355(3) (/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-355).

Regulations allowing for an extension of time

The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Regulations 2011 (No. 4) (80 of 2011) extended
the time for recording details of the basis for allocating gains and losses for certain
hedging financial arrangements for income tax purposes until 30 June 2011.

See Income Tax Assessment Amendment Regulations 2011 (No. 4) (80 of 2011)
(/law/view/document?Docid=REG/20110080/ATOTOC&PiT=99991231235958).


Hedge effectiveness requirements

It is a requirement of section 230-365 that the hedge be expected to be highly effective
within the meaning of the accounting principles. Hedge effectiveness is addressed in
Taxation Determination TD 2011/23.

If the hedge proves to be ineffective, this will result in a balancing adjustment under
section 230-375.

For more information, see:

  Section 230-375 – Balancing adjustment if election ceases to apply
  (/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-365)

  Section 230-365 – Effectiveness of the hedge (/law/view/document?
  docid=PAC/19970038/230-365)

  TD 2011/23 (/law/view/document?docid=TXD/TD201123/NAT/ATO/00001) Income
  tax: does the hedge effectiveness test under section 230-365 of the Income Tax
  Assessment Act 1997 require both retrospective and prospective testing where
  'highly effective' takes its meaning from Australian accounting principles?.
Tax treatment

The gain or loss from a hedging financial arrangement is equal to the overall gain or loss
from the arrangement pursuant to subsection 230-300(2). This will be the case whether
a gain or loss results from, among other things, the expiration, sale, termination or
exercise of a hedging financial arrangement (see Taxation Determination TD 2012/13).

A gain or loss under subsection 230-300(2) will be allocated to income years in
accordance with the determination made under section 230-360 (see Tax-timing and
tax-status matching (#Taxtimingandtaxstatusmatching)).

The exception to this is if a hedging event under section 230-305 applies, in which case
the gain or loss is identified in subsection 230-300(5).

For more information, see:

  Section 230-300 – Applying hedging financial arrangements method to gains and
  losses (/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-300)

  TD 2012/13 (/law/view/document?docid=TXD/TD201213/NAT/ATO/00001) Income
  tax: is the gain or loss resulting from the expiration, sale, termination or exercise of
  a hedging financial arrangement to which a hedging financial arrangement election
  applies, determined and allocated in accordance with subsections 230-300(2) and
  230-300(3) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997?

Hedging events under section 230-305

Where an event in the table under subsection 230-305(1) happens (for example,
revocation of the hedge or the hedge is ineffective), pursuant to subsection 230-300(5)
the gain or loss from the hedging financial arrangement is the gain or loss that would
have been made from the hedging financial arrangement if the entity ceased to have the
arrangement for its fair value at the time of the event.

This gain or loss will either be allocated according to the determination made under
section 230-360, or to the income year in which the event happens, depending on which
item of the table in section 230-305 applies to the event.

Paragraph 230-300(5)(b) states that TOFA applies as if the arrangement had been
acquired (or reacquired) for its fair value immediately after the event. This requires a
reassessment of whether the arrangement will continue to satisfy the definition of
hedging financial arrangement in subsection 230-335(1) after the time of the deemed
reacquisition.

See Section 230-305 – Table of events and allocation rules (/law/view/document?
docid=PAC/19970038/230-305).


Tax-timing and tax-status matching
Under the hedging financial arrangements method, the timing of the gains or losses on
the hedging financial arrangement is matched with the timing of gains or losses on the
hedged item (section 230-360). Similarly, the tax status of the gains or losses on the
hedging financial arrangement is generally matched with the tax status of the gains or
losses on the hedged item (subsection 230-310(4)).

The tax-timing matching rule ensures that gains and losses made from a hedging financial
arrangement are allocated on an objective, fair and reasonable basis. The gains and
losses allocated must fairly and reasonably correspond with the basis on which gains,
losses and other amounts in relation to the hedged item are recognised or allocated for
tax purposes (subsection 230-360). There might be more than one way to fairly and
reasonably do this, but the basis of allocation must correspond to the basis of taxation for
the hedged item.

Under the tax-status matching rule, the tax classification of gains and losses from
hedging financial arrangements are generally matched with the classification of the
hedged item (section 230-310). For example, as a result of the tax-status matching rule, a
gain or loss made on a hedging financial arrangement might be classified as on capital or
revenue account, depending on the classification of the hedged item.

The tax-status matching rules do not apply to gains and losses made from an existing
hedging financial arrangement. As a result, gains and losses made from these existing
arrangements will be on revenue account and tax status or classification will be
determined in the manner set out in subsection 230-310(3).


  Example: applying the hedging financial arrangement method

  Ben Co is an Australian company with a foreign subsidiary that has an active business in a foreign
  jurisdiction. Ben Co's interest in the net assets of the foreign subsidiary is a net investment in a
  foreign operation as defined in AASB 121 being:

     the net assets of the foreign subsidiary in the consolidated financial report of
     Ben Co

     long-term intra-group debt lent by Ben Co to the foreign subsidiary.

  The only election Ben Co has made is the hedging financial arrangement method election.

  Ben Co takes out a series of rolling foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the exchange
  rate risk in relation to its interest in the net assets of the foreign subsidiary.

  Ben Co will recognise a relevant portion of the gains and losses from these forward contracts for
  the purposes of section 230-360. The time of recognition will be when any of the following occur:

     a dividend is paid by the foreign subsidiary

     part of the loan principal is repaid
     there is a capital return from this investment, for example on disposal of shares.


For more information, see:

  Section 230-360 – Determining basis for allocating gain or loss
  (/law/view/document?docid=PAC/19970038/230-360)

  Section 230-310 – Aligning classification of gain or loss from hedging financial
  arrangement with tax classification of hedged item (/law/view/document?
  docid=PAC/19970038/230-310).




QC 27222




Our commitment to you
We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to help you
understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations.

If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you make a mistake
as a result, we will take that into account when determining what action, if any, we should take.

Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is clearly marked. Make
sure you have the information for the right year before making decisions based on that information.

If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are unsure how it applies
to you, contact us or seek professional advice.


Copyright notice

© Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia

You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish (but not in any way
that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any of your services or products).
