Businesses and organisations > Trusts > ...   > Managed investment trusts

> Capital treatment elections



Managed investment trusts: election into
capital treatment
An overview of the MIT capital treatment election rules, including
eligibility requirements and how to make an election.

Last updated 24 July 2025




      On this page

      Eligibility for making a capital treatment election

      Eligible CGT assets

      Making a capital treatment election

      Request for an extension of time to make a capital election

      Amendments to previous years

      Tax consequences of capital elections


Managed investment trust capital treatment election rules, including eligibility
requirements and making an election.

If you're the trustee of a managed investment trust (MIT), this information will help
you work out whether you're eligible to make a capital treatment election and how to
make an election.
The MIT capital treatment rules allow the trustee of an eligible MIT to choose to apply
the capital gains tax (CGT) provisions for the taxation of gains and losses on disposal
of certain eligible assets, rather than on revenue account. For the purposes of the MIT
capital treatment rules, a disposal also includes ceasing to own, or otherwise
realising, the asset.

You must make the election in the first year the trust qualifies as a MIT, and it is
irrevocable as long as the MIT remains eligible. If a MIT does not make a capital
treatment election in the first year, it will be taxed on revenue account under general
tax law principles.

These rules apply to CGT events that happen on or after the start of the 2008–09
income year.



Eligibility for making a capital treatment election
A trust will be eligible to make a capital treatment election if it meets the definition of
a MIT. The election must be made in the first year the trust is a MIT.

The definition of a MIT has changed since the start of the capital treatment rules in
2008–09. There were extensive amendments in 2010, and further amendments in
2016. You should consider the definition of a MIT at the relevant time in determining
whether the MIT is eligible (/businesses-and-organisations/trusts/specific-rules-for-
some-trusts/managed-investment-trusts/managed-investment-trusts-
overview/eligibility-requirements#Eligibilityrequirements) to make a capital treatment
election in a specific year.


When the eligibility of the trust changes

Capital treatment by reason of having made an election will not apply in any year in
which the trust ceases to be a MIT. Disposals of eligible assets in these years are
subject to tax by reference to general tax law principles.

If the trust again meets the definition of a MIT in a later income year, the capital
treatment election will apply because the election, once made, is irrevocable.
  Example: capital treatment election for non-eligible MIT
  Bayley Trust is a MIT that has made an election into capital treatment, which is in
  force for 2008–09 and later income years.

  In the 2010–11 income year, Bayley Trust fails to meet the definition of a MIT, so
  the capital treatment election does not apply in that year. Bayley Trust disposes
  of units in a unit trust during the year. Because the capital treatment election
  does not apply, the character of the gain from the disposal of the units will be
  determined in accordance with general tax law principles.




Eligible CGT assets
Assets eligible for capital treatment are:

  shares in a company (including a foreign hybrid company)

  non-share equity interests in a company

  units in a unit trust

  land (including an interest in land)

  a right or option to acquire or dispose of any assets listed above.

However, an asset is not an eligible asset if it is a debt interest, or a financial
arrangement to which Taxation of Financial Arrangements (TOFA) applies.


Special rules

Some assets will not be eligible for capital treatment, even where the trustee has
made an election for capital treatment. Generally, these will be assets purchased
and/or held as trading stock, and include:

  land, an interest in land, or a right or option to acquire or dispose of such an asset,
  which is held as trading stock or which was acquired before 20 September 1985
  and is part of a profit-making undertaking or plan
  an asset acquired in an income year in which the capital treatment election was not
  in force, and the asset was treated as trading stock in the MIT's financial report
  and income tax return for

     the most recent income year ending before the income year in which the
     election first came into force

     the most recent income year ending before the time of the CGT event.



  Example: ineligible for capital treatment
  Griffin Trust is a MIT and has made an election which is in force for the 2008–09
  and later income years.

  In the 2009–10 income year, Griffin Trust disposes of units in a unit trust which it
  had been treating as trading stock in both its financial report and income tax
  return for the 2007–08 and 2008–09 income years. The units were acquired
  in 2007.

  Although Griffin Trust has made an election for capital treatment, any gain or
  loss from the disposal of the units will not be assessed under the CGT
  provisions.

  This is because the units were acquired before the election was in force, and the
  asset had previously been treated as trading stock in the Griffin Trust financial
  report and income tax return for both the:

     2007–08 income year (being the most recent income year prior to the income
     year in which the election was made)

     2008–09 income year (being the most recent income year ending before the
     time of the CGT event).




Making a capital treatment election
The trustee of an eligible MIT can make an election for capital treatment.
Trusts that became a MIT prior to the 2009–10 income year

When must you make an election?

You must make an election on or before the latest of the following days:

  2 September 2010

  a later date, if we allow it.

When will an election take effect?

Once you make the election, it will have effect for the 2008–09 and later income
years.

How can you make an election?

The period in which a trustee can make an election for a trust that became a MIT prior
to the 2009–10 income year has now expired.

However, we may allow a trustee to make the election upon request.

Next steps:

  Request for an extension of time to make an election
  (#Requestforanextensionoftimetomake)


Trusts that became a MIT in 2009–10 or a later income year

When must you make an election?

You must make an election on or before the latest of the following days:

  the day the trust is required to lodge its income tax return for the income year in
  which it became a MIT

  a later date, if we allow it.

When will an election take effect?

Once you make the election, it will have effect for the income year in which the trust
becomes a MIT and later income years.
How can you make an election?

If you are the trustee of a MIT, you can make an election by answering 'Yes' to the
following question on the Trust tax return:

  If the trust is a managed investment trust, has the trustee made an election for
  capital account treatment?

If you are the trustee of an AMIT, you can make an election by answering 'Yes' to the
following question on the AMIT tax return:

  Has the trustee made an election into managed investment trust capital account
  treatment?

You must make the election within the relevant timeframe.

If you are the trustee of a trust that became a MIT prior to the 2009–10 income year,
and you have previously made an election for capital treatment, you still need to
answer 'Yes' to this question for each year you are required to complete a Trust tax
return or AMIT tax return.



Request for an extension of time to make a capital
election
The Commissioner has discretion to grant a MIT an extension of time to make an
election into capital treatment.


Who can make a request for an extension of time?

Generally, the trustee of a MIT must apply to the Commissioner to request for an
extension of time to make an election into capital treatment.


How can a request be made?
The application should be in writing and include sufficient information to demonstrate
why discretion would be reasonable.

The written request should:
  provide details of the circumstances giving rise to why the election was not made
  on time

  propose a date by which the election will be made

  give assurance future obligations will be met on time once the stated
  circumstances are resolved.

Note: There is no prescribed application form.


What factors will the Commissioner consider in exercising the
discretion?
We follow these guidelines when making our decision:

  Where an extension is granted, it will generally be on a short-term basis to allow
  the trustee to overcome the problems preventing them from making the election.
  The extension will generally only be provided for a short period after the date the
  election should have been made.

  Consideration will be given to how soon steps were taken to make an election and
  whether a timely request was made to the Commissioner to seek an extension of
  time.

  Each case will be considered on its merits based on all the relevant facts and
  circumstances.

  The Commissioner will have regard to the subject matter, scope and purpose of
  subsection 275-115(3) of the ITAA 1997 which establishes a deadline for making an
  election into capital treatment.

  The Commissioner may consider whether the entity has acted in a manner
  consistent with the proposed election, based on the way it has prepared its
  accounts and returns.

  The Commissioner will consider whether there were circumstances beyond the
  control of the trustee that contributed to the delay in making the election, whether
  reasonable steps were taken to mitigate the effect of those circumstances, and
  whether the trustee will be able to make the election at a particular time in future.

  Consequences of the proposed extension of time for making the election may be
  considered, including any impact on distribution statements or on ATO lodgment
  obligations of the MIT.

  The Commissioner must ensure he does not confer an advantage on a taxpayer or
  group of taxpayers.

  The Commissioner will have regard to whether the request for an extension of time
  is for an improper purpose or in bad faith.


How will I be informed of the exercise of the Commissioner's
discretion?
If the discretion is exercised following your request, you will receive written advice of
a new date by which the election must be made.

If the discretion is not exercised, you will be advised in writing, and given the reasons
for that decision.



Amendments to previous years
There are rules that limit the Commissioner's ability to amend an assessment for a
year prior to the 2008–09 income year. This relates to amendments to treat a gain or
loss from an asset as being on revenue account or on capital account.

However, these rules only apply if:

  there is a capital treatment election in force for the 2008–09 income year, and

  the gain or loss that arose in the previous income year would have been subject to
  capital treatment had the election been in force for that previous year.

The rules do not apply if an entity gives the Commissioner a written consent to the
amendment.



Tax consequences of capital elections
Once a MIT makes an election, it is permanent and cannot be reversed.
For a MIT that makes an election for capital treatment, gains and losses on disposal of
eligible assets will be assessed only under the CGT provisions for each year that the
MIT is an eligible MIT.

However, the capital election will not apply where the trust does not meet the
definition of a MIT for the relevant income year.

For more information, see Capital gains tax essentials (/individuals-and-
families/investments-and-assets/capital-gains-tax).


Tax consequences of not making an election
If a MIT is eligible to make an election, but does not do so by the relevant date, any
gains or losses on the disposal of eligible assets will be treated on revenue account
under general tax law principles.




QC 23181




Our commitment to you
We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to
help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations.

If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you
make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what
action, if any, we should take.

Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is
clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making
decisions based on that information.

If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are
unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice.
