                                                    Print whole section



Personal investors guide to capital
gains tax 2025
A guide to your tax obligations if you made a capital gain or
loss from shares, units or managed funds.

Published 29 May 2025




   How to get the personal investors guide to
   capital gains tax
   How to get a copy of the personal investors guide to capital
   gains tax.




   About the personal investors guide to
   capital gains tax
   Check when and when not to use this guide and your tax
   obligations.




   General guidance
   Explains what you need to complete in your tax return and things
   that need to be taken into consideration.




   Part A: How capital gains tax applies to
   you
   How to meet your capital gains tax (CGT) obligations, and what
   exemptions and rollovers might be available to you.




   Part B: Sale of shares or units
   Explains how to work out your capital gain from the sale of
   shares, or units in a unit trust.




   Part C: Distributions from managed funds
   Explains legislative changes impacting capital gains of managed
   investment trusts and how to work out your capital gain.




QC 104651



How to get the personal investors
guide to capital gains tax
How to get a copy of the personal investors guide to
capital gains tax.

Last updated 29 May 2025



Get the personal investors guide to capital
gains tax instructions
The Personal investors guide to capital gains tax 2025 isn't available in
print.

To get a copy download this guide:

   Personal investors guide to capital gains tax 2025 (NAT 4152, PDF
   461KB).

   Personal investors guide to capital gains tax 2025 (NAT 4152,
   DOCX 2.7MB).

Continue to: About the personal investors guide to capital gains tax
Return to: Personal investors guide to capital gains tax 2025




QC 104651



About the personal investors guide
to capital gains tax
Check when and when not to use this guide and your tax
obligations.

Published 29 May 2025




Who should use this guide?
Personal investors guide to capital gains tax 2025 explains the capital
gains tax (CGT) consequences of:

   the sale or gift (or other disposal) of shares or units

   the receipt of distributions of capital gains from managed funds

   the receipt of non-assessable payments from companies or
   managed funds.

This guide only covers capital gains or capital losses from CGT assets
that are shares, units or other interests in managed funds. Use this
guide if you're a personal investor who has made a capital gain or
capital loss from these assets in 2024–25.


Who shouldn't use this guide?
Don't use this guide if you:

   are an investor who is a foreign resident of Australia

   have gains or losses included as part of your income under other
   provisions of the tax law – for example, if you're carrying on a
   business of share trading, see Share investing versus share trading

   are a resident investor who had

      a period of non-residency after 8 May 2012
      a CGT event that happened after 8 May 2012

      a discount capital gain.

For more information, see CGT discount for foreign residents.

This guide doesn't explain more complex issues relating to shares
(including employee shares), convertible notes and units. Nor does it
apply to shares and units owned by companies, trusts and
superannuation funds.

This guide doesn't cover your CGT consequences when you sell other
assets such as:

   a rental property

   collectables (for example, jewellery, art, antiques and collections)

   assets for personal use (for example, a boat you use for recreation).

For more information, see Guide to capital gains tax 2025

Continue to: General guidance

Return to: How to get the personal investors guide to capital gains tax




QC 104651



General guidance
Explains what you need to complete in your tax return and
things that need to be taken into consideration.

Published 29 May 2025



Completing your tax return
This guide will help you complete your tax return.

If you sold or otherwise disposed of shares, or units in a unit trust
(including a managed fund) in 2024–25, read Part A of this guide, then
work through Part B.
If you receive a distribution of a capital gain from a managed fund in
2024–25, read Part A of this guide, then work through Part C.

Managed funds include property trusts, share trusts, equity trusts,
growth trusts, imputation trusts and balanced trusts.


Small business CGT concessions
If you're involved in the sale of shares or units for a small business and
you would like more information, see Small business CGT concessions.


Investments in foreign hybrids
A foreign hybrid is an entity that is taxed in Australia as a company but
taxed overseas as a partnership. This can include a limited
partnership, a limited liability partnership and a United States limited
liability company.

If you have an investment in a foreign hybrid (referred to as being a
member of a foreign hybrid), you're now treated as having an interest
in each asset of the partnership for Australian tax purposes.

As a consequence, any capital gain or capital loss made about a
foreign hybrid or its assets is considered to be made by the member.


General value shifting regime
You may be affected by value shifting rules if you own shares in a
company or units (or other fixed interests) in a trust and value has
been shifted in or out of your shares or units. Generally, the rules only
affect individuals who control the company or trust, or individuals who
are related to individuals or entities that control the company or trust.


Forestry managed investment schemes
There are specific CGT rules where secondary investors or subsequent
participants hold forestry managed investment scheme (FMIS)
interests on capital account. These rules apply to FMIS interests sold
or disposed of in 2007–08 and later income years.

For more information, see Guide to capital gains tax 2025.

Continue to: Part A: How capital gains tax applies to you
Return to: About the personal investors guide to capital gains tax




QC 104651



Part A: How capital gains tax
applies to you
How to meet your capital gains tax (CGT) obligations, and
what exemptions and rollovers might be available to you.

Published 29 May 2025



A1: What is capital gains tax and what rate
of tax do you pay?
CGT is the tax you pay on any capital gain you include in your tax
return. It isn't a separate tax, merely a component of your income tax.
You are taxed on your net capital gain at your marginal tax rate.

To work out your net capital gain:

   take your total capital gains for the year

   subtract your total capital losses for the year and any unapplied
   net capital losses from earlier years

   subtract any CGT discount and small business CGT concessions to
   which you're entitled.

If your total capital losses for the year are more than your total capital
gains, the difference is your net capital loss for the year. It can be
carried forward to later income years to be deducted from future
capital gains. You can't deduct capital losses or a net capital loss from
your income. There is no time limit on how long you can carry forward
a net capital loss. You apply your net capital losses in the order that
you made them. For more information on how to apply your capital
losses, see Step 8 of Part B Sale of shares or units, and Step 4 of
Part C Distributions from managed funds.
You make a capital gain or a capital loss if a CGT event happens. The
disposal of an asset is an example of a CGT event. You can also make
a capital gain if a managed fund or other trust distributes a capital gain
to you.

You write the total of your current income year capital gains in your tax
return and your net capital gain in your tax return.


A2: Worldwide obligations
Australian residents can make a capital gain or capital loss if a CGT
event happens to any of their assets anywhere in the world.


A3: How to meet your CGT obligations
To meet your CGT obligations, follow these 3 main steps:

  Step 1 Decide whether a CGT event has happened

  Step 2 Work out the time of the CGT event

  Step 3 Calculate your capital gain or capital loss


Keep your records
You need to keep good records of any assets you have bought or sold.
This will help you to correctly work out the amount of capital gain or
capital loss you have made when a CGT event happens. You must keep
these records for 5 years after the CGT event has happened.

You should also keep records relevant to a net capital loss that you
carry forward as part of unapplied net capital losses. You may be able
to apply this net capital loss against a capital gain in a later income
year.


Step 1 Decide whether a CGT event has happened
CGT events are the different types of transactions or events that may
result in a capital gain or capital loss. A CGT event happens if you sell
(or otherwise disposed of) your shares or units or other assets during
2024–25.

Examples of other CGT events that can happen to shares or units
include:
  when a company makes a payment other than a dividend to you as
  a shareholder when a trust or fund makes a non-assessable
  payment to you as a unit holder

  where you have an annual cost base reduction that exceeds the
  cost base of your interest in an attribution managed investment
  trust (AMIT)

  when a liquidator or administrator declares that shares or financial
  instruments relating to a company are worthless

  when shares in a company are cancelled because the company is
  wound up.

In some cases, although CGT events may happen to certain assets,
any capital gains or capital losses from them are generally disregarded
(for example, assets acquired before 20 September 1985).

For more information on CGT events, see Guide to capital gains tax
2025.

If a managed fund makes a capital gain and distributes part of that
gain to you, you're treated as if you make a capital gain from a CGT
event.

If you don't make a capital gain or capital loss from a CGT event during
2024–25, you don't need to include anything in your tax return.

If you did make a capital gain or capital loss from a CGT event during
2024–25, you need to complete the relevant section in your tax return.
If the CGT event happens to your shares or units and the event is
covered in this guide (see About the personal investors guide to
capital gains tax), read on. Otherwise, see Guide to capital gains tax
2025.


Step 2 Work out the time of the CGT event
The timing of a CGT event is important because it determines which
income year you show your capital gain or capital loss in. If you sell or
otherwise dispose of an asset to someone else, the CGT event
happens when you enter into the contract of sale. If there is no
contract, the CGT event happens when you stop being the asset’s
owner.

If you receive a distribution of a capital gain from a managed fund, you
are considered to have made the capital gain in the income year
shown on your statement from the managed fund.


Step 3 Calculate your capital gain or capital loss
There are 3 ways of calculating your capital gain or capital loss from
the sale of your shares or units:

  the indexation method

  the discount method

  the ‘other’ method.

The indexation method allows you to increase the amount that your
asset cost (the cost base) by applying an indexation factor that is
based on increases in CPI up to September 1999.

The indexation method can only be applied to assets that you acquire
before 11:45 am AEST on 21 September 1999.

If you own the shares or units for at least 12 months, use the discount
method. The discount method allows you to reduce the discount
capital gains by 50%. For more information on when to apply the
discount, see Table 1.

For assets that qualify for both the indexation and discount methods,
you can choose the method that gives you the better result. You don't
have to choose the same method for all your shares or units even if
they are in the same company or fund. You must offset capital losses
against capital gains before you apply the CGT discount, so your
choice may also depend on the amount of capital losses that you have
available, see example 18.

You must use the ‘other’ method for any shares or units you buy and
sell within 12 months.

To calculate your capital gain, you subtract your cost base from what
you receive (your capital proceeds).

You make a capital loss from the sale of your shares or units if their
reduced cost base is greater than your capital proceeds. You can't
index amounts included in your reduced cost base.

If your capital proceeds are less than your cost base but more than
your reduced cost base there is neither a capital gain or loss.

If you receive a distribution of a capital gain from a managed fund,
Part C of this guide explains how you calculate the amount of that
capital gain. You must use the same method as that chosen by the
fund.

Table 1 explains and compares the 3 methods of calculating your
capital gain.


Table 1: Capital gain calculation methods

                   Indexation        Discount         ‘Other’
  Method
                   method            method           method


  Description      Use to            Use to halve     A basic
                   increase the      your capital     method to
  of the
                   cost base by      gain.            subtract the
  method
                   applying an                        cost base
                   indexation                         from the
                   factor based                       capital
                   on CPI.                            proceeds.


  When to          Use for           Use for          Use for
                   shares or         shares or        shares or
  use the
                   units held for    units held       units if you
  method
                   12 months or      for              have bought
                   more,             12 months        and sold
                   if this method    or more, if      them within
                   produces a        this method      12 months
                   better result     produces a       (that is,
                   for you than      better result    when the
                   the discount      for you than     indexation
                   method. Use       the              and
                   only with         indexation       discount
                   assets            method.          methods
                   acquired                           don't apply).
                   before
                   11:45 am
                   AEST on
                   21 September
                   1999.


  How to           Apply the         Subtract the     Subtract the
                   relevant          cost base        cost base
  calculate
                   indexation        from the         from the
  your             factors (see      capital          capital
  capital gain     CPI table),       proceeds,        proceeds
  using the        then subtract     deduct any       (see the
  method           the indexed       capital          worked
                   cost base         losses, then     examples in
                   from the          divide by 2      Chapter B2).
                     capital            (see the
                     proceeds           worked
                     (see the           examples in
                     worked             Chapter B2).
                     examples in
                     Chapter B2).



A4: Exemptions and rollovers
There may be an exemption that allows you to disregard your capital
gain or capital loss. For example, generally you disregard any capital
gain or capital loss associated with any pre-CGT assets (assets you
acquire before 20 September 1985).

There may be a rollover that allows you to defer your capital gain. For
example, if a company in which you hold shares is taken over or
merges with another company, and you're required to sell your shares
for cash, you have either a capital gain or capital loss. If you exchange
your existing shares for shares in the acquiring company, you may be
able to defer or roll over some or all of your capital gain (but not a
capital loss) until a later CGT event happens to your replacement
shares. This is known as scrip-for-scrip rollover.

Another example of a rollover is when you transfer a CGT asset to your
former spouse (married or de facto) because of a court order after a
marriage or relationship breakdown. In this case, you don't make a
capital gain or capital loss on the transfer. Your former spouse may
make a capital gain or capital loss when a later CGT event happens to
the asset. For more information, see Relationship breakdown and
capital gains tax.

A rollover is also available for some demergers of corporate or trust
groups.


Assets you didn't buy and assets other than shares
and units
If you sell assets other than shares and units or sell assets from a
deceased estate this income year, see Guide to capital gains tax
2025 to find out how to calculate and report your CGT obligations.


A5: Records you need to keep
Most of the records needed to calculate your capital gain or capital
loss when you dispose of shares in companies or units in unit trusts
(including managed funds) is given to you by the company. The unit
trust manager or your stockbroker may also supply these records. It is
important that you keep everything they give you about your shares
and units.

These records will generally provide the following important
information:

   the date you bought the shares or units

   the amount paid to buy the shares or units

   details of any non-assessable payments made to you during the
   time you owned the shares or units

   the date and amount of any calls if shares were partly paid

   the sale price if you sold them

   any commissions paid to brokers when you bought or sold them

   any merger or demerger of your share and unit trust.

Continue to: Part B: Sale of shares or units

Return to: General guidance




QC 104651



Part B: Sale of shares or units
Explains how to work out your capital gain from the sale of
shares, or units in a unit trust.

Published 29 May 2025



B1: How to work out your capital gain or
capital loss
To calculate your capital gain from the sale of shares, or units in a unit
trust (for example, a managed fund), the 3 main steps are:

  Step 1 Work out your capital proceeds from the CGT event

  Step 2 Work out the cost base of your asset

  Step 3 Did you make a capital gain?

If your capital proceeds are greater than your cost base, the difference
is your capital gain. The 3 methods of calculating your capital gain are
described in Part A – step 3.

If your capital proceeds are less than the cost base, you then need to
work out the reduced cost base. Your asset will have a reduced cost
base different to your cost base if you are required to deduct from the
cost base amounts you receive that are non-assessable amount like a
distribution that isn't a dividend. Generally, for shares, the cost base
and reduced cost base are the same.

If the reduced cost base, is greater than the capital proceeds the
difference is a capital loss.

If the capital proceeds are less than the cost base but more than the
reduced cost base, you haven't made a capital gain or a capital loss.

The following steps (1–11) show you the calculations required to work
out your CGT obligation using the ‘other’ and 'discount' methods. If you
want to use the indexation method (by indexing your cost base for
inflation), you do this at Step 2. You may find it easier to follow the
worked examples in Chapter B2.

You may find it useful to use notepaper to do your calculations while
you work through the following steps so you can transfer the relevant
amounts to question 18 in your supplementary tax return.

Step 1 Work out your capital proceeds from the CGT
event
The capital proceeds are what you receive, or are taken to receive,
when you sell or otherwise dispose of your shares or units.

For example, with shares the capital proceeds can be:

  the amount you receive from the purchaser

  the amount or value of shares or other property you receive on a
  merger or takeover
  the market value if you give shares away.



  Example 1: capital proceeds
  Fred sold his parcel of 1,000 shares for $6,000. Fred’s capital
  proceeds are $6,000.



Step 2 Work out the cost base of your asset
In certain circumstances a cost base may be indexed up to
30 September 1999 in line with changes in the CPI; this is called the
indexation method and the cost base would then become an ‘indexed’
cost base. For more information, see the worked examples in
Chapter B2.

The cost base of your asset is the total of:

  what your asset cost you

  certain incidental costs of buying and selling it – brokerage or
  agent’s fees, legal fees, and investment advisers’ fees (but not
  investment seminar costs)

  the costs of owning the asset, such as interest on monies borrowed
  to acquire the asset (generally, this won't apply to shares or units
  because you usually will claim or are entitled to claim these costs as
  tax deductions)

  any costs you incur in establishing, maintaining and defending your
  ownership of it.

You may also need to reduce the cost base for an asset such as a
share or unit by the amount of any non-assessable payment you
receive from the company or fund during the ownership of the share or
unit. This is explained in Chapter B3 (shares) and Chapter C2 (units).

For more information on how to determine your cost base and reduced
cost base, see Guide to capital gains tax 2025.



  Example 2: calculating the cost base
  Fred bought the 1,000 shares that he sold in example 1 for $5
  each ($5,000). When he bought them he was charged $50 for
  brokerage When he sold the shares he paid $50 brokerage.

  The cost base of his shares is:

       $5,000 + $50 + $50 = $5,100.



Step 3 Did you make a capital gain?
Subtract the amount in step 2 from the amount in step 1.

If the capital proceeds are greater than the cost base, the difference is
your capital gain.



  Example 3: calculating capital gain
  As Fred sold his shares for $6,000, he subtracts his shares’ cost
  base of $5,100 from the capital proceeds of $6,000 to arrive at
  his capital gain, which is $900.



Step 4 If you didn't make a capital gain, work out the
reduced cost base of the asset
If you didn't make a capital gain, you need to calculate a reduced cost
base of your asset before you can work out any capital loss.

The reduced cost base is the cost base less any amounts you need to
exclude from it.



  Example 4: reduced cost base
  In our example, Fred had no amounts to exclude, so the cost
  base and the reduced cost base for his shares are the same
  ($5,100).


For units in an AMIT, you may need to make upwards or downwards
adjustments to the cost base and reduced cost base of your units,
depending on your AMIT cost base net amount. Your fund should
advise you of your AMIT cost base net amount (and other relevant
amounts) in your AMMA statement.

For units in other funds, you may need to make downwards
adjustments to the cost base and reduced cost base depending on the
types of amounts distributed. Your fund should advise you of these
amounts in its statements:

  tax-deferred amount; this reduces the cost base and the reduced
  cost base

  CGT-concession amount; if received before 1 July 2001, this
  reduces the cost base and reduced cost base (if received on or
  after 1 July 2001, it doesn't affect your cost base or your reduced
  cost base)

  tax-free amount; this reduces your reduced cost base only

  tax-exempted amount; this doesn't affect your cost base or
  reduced cost base.

Step 5 Did you make a capital loss?
If the capital proceeds are less than the reduced cost base, the
difference is your capital loss.



  Example 5: capital loss
  If Fred had sold his shares for $4,000 instead of $6,000, he
  would have made a capital loss of $1,100 (that is, his reduced
  cost base of $5,100 less his capital proceeds of $4,000).



Step 6 Did you make neither a capital gain nor a
capital loss?
If the capital proceeds are less than the cost base but more than the
reduced cost base, you have neither a capital gain nor a capital loss.



  Example 6: neither capital gain nor capital loss
  If Fred had sold his shares for$5,100, he wouldn't have made a
  capital gain or a capital loss.



Step 7 Work out your total current income year
capital gains
Write the total of the capital gains for all your assets for the current
income year at question 18 – label H in your supplementary tax return.

If you have a distribution of capital gains from a managed fund, include
this in your total capital gains. See Step 3 in Chapter C1.

If you have any capital losses, don't subtract them from the capital
gains before writing the total amount at label H.



  Example 7: capital gains
  Fred doesn't have any other capital gains. Therefore, from step 3,
  he writes $900 at question 18 – label H in his supplementary tax
  return.



Step 8 Applying capital losses against capital gains
If you don't have capital losses from assets you disposed of this year
or unapplied net capital losses from earlier years, go to Step 9.

If you made capital losses this year, subtract them from the amount
you wrote at label H. If you have unapplied net capital losses from
earlier years, subtract them from the amount remaining after you
subtract the capital losses made this year. Subtract both types of
losses in the manner that gives you the greatest benefit.

Subtracting your losses
You will probably get the greatest benefit if you subtract capital losses
from capital gains in the following order:

1. capital gains for which neither the indexation method nor the
   discount method applies (that is, if you bought and sold your shares
   within 12 months)

2. capital gains calculated using the indexation method, and then

3. capital gains to which the CGT discount can apply.

Losses from collectables and personal use assets
Capital losses from collectables can't be used to reduce capital gains
from shares or units. Capital losses from collectables can be carried
forward and applied to capital gains from collectables in future years.
Jewellery, art and antiques are examples of collectables.
Losses from personal use assets are disregarded. Personal use assets
are assets mainly used for personal use that aren't collectables, such
as a boat you use for recreation. For more information, see Guide to
capital gains tax 2025.

If the total of your capital losses for the year and unapplied net capital
losses from earlier years is greater than your capital gains, go to
Step 11.



  Example 8: applying a net capital loss
  Fred had a net capital loss of $75 from some shares that he sold
  last income year. Apart from his capital gain of $900 (see
  example 7) he had no other capital gains or capital losses this
  income year. Fred can reduce this income year’s capital gain of
  $900 by $75. Fred’s remaining capital gain is $825.



Step 9 Applying the CGT discount
If you have any remaining capital gains, you can now apply the CGT
discount, if it is applicable, and reduce them by 50%.

Remember, you can't apply the CGT discount to:

  capital gains calculated using the indexation method

  capital gains from CGT assets you bought and sold within
  12 months.



  Example 9: applying the CGT discount
  As Fred owned his shares for at least 12 months, he can reduce
  his $800 gain by the CGT discount of 50% to arrive at a net
  capital gain of $400:

       $800 × 50% = $400



Step 10 What is your net capital gain?
The amount now remaining is your net capital gain (cents aren't
shown). Write this amount at question 18 – label A in your
supplementary tax return.
  Example 10: net capital gain
  Fred writes his net capital gain of $400 at question 18 – label A in
  his supplementary tax return.


Go to Chapter B2.

Step 11 doesn't apply if you have a net capital gain.


Step 11 Work out and show your carry-forward
losses
If the total of your capital losses for the year and unapplied net capital
losses from earlier income years is greater than your capital gains, you
were directed to this step from step 8.

Don't write anything at question 18 – label A in your supplementary tax
return.

At question 18 – label V in your supplementary tax return write the
amount by which the total of your capital losses for the year and
unapplied net capital losses from earlier income years is greater than
your capital gains for the year. You carry this amount forward to be
applied against later income year capital gains.



  Example 11: carry-forward losses
  Continuing the example from step 5, if Fred had no other capital
  gains or losses, he would write $1,100 at question 18 – label V in
  his supplementary tax return. He would leave blank at
  question 18 – labels A and H in his supplementary tax return.




B2: Worked examples for shares and units
The following examples show how CGT works in various situations
where people have bought and sold shares and units. They may help
you meet your CGT obligations and complete question 18 in your
supplementary tax return.
Example 12: a capital gain from one parcel of
shares that was bought and sold less than
12 months later.
Sonya bought 1,000 shares in Tulip Ltd for $1,500 including
brokerage and sold them less than 12 months later for $2,350.
She paid $50 brokerage on the sale. The sale is a CGT event.

As Sonya bought and sold the shares within 12 months, she uses
the ‘other’ method to calculate her capital gain. She can't use the
indexation or discount method. Her capital gain is:

    $2,350 − ($1,500 + $50) = $800.

As she has no other CGT event and doesn't have any capital
losses, Sonya writes the following at question 18 in her
supplementary tax return:

  $800 at label H

  $800 at label A.




Example 13: a capital gain from the sale of units
which was bought before 11:45 am AEST on
21 September 1999 and gave to a sibling more
than 12 months later.
In May 1999, Andrew bought 1,200 units in a Share Trust for
$1,275 including brokerage. He gave the units to his brother more
than 12 months later. At that time they were worth $1,595.

The gift is a CGT event. As Andrew bought the units before
21 September 1999 and he owned them for more than
12 months, he can use the indexation or discount method to
calculate his capital gain, whichever method gives him the better
result.

Indexation method

If Andrew calculates his capital gain or capital loss using the
indexation method, he indexes the cost of his units and the
incidental costs of buying them as follows:

   CPI for September 1999 quarter = 68.7

   CPI for June 1999 quarter = 68.1

   Indexation factor = 68.7 ÷ 68.1 = 1.009

His indexed cost base is worked out as follows:

   His cost ($1,275) × 1.009 = $1,286

So his capital gain is:

   Capital proceeds $1,595

   minus Indexed cost base $1,286

   Capital gain $309

Discount method

If Andrew uses the discount method, his capital gain is calculated
as:

   Capital proceeds
   $1,595

   minus Cost base
   $1,275

   Total capital gain
   $320

   subtract CGT discount (see note)
   $160

   Capital gain
   $160

Andrew doesn't have any capital losses. If he did, he would
deduct any capital losses before applying the CGT discount.

Andrew chooses the discount method because it gives him a
smaller capital gain.

As he has no other CGT event and doesn't have any capital
losses, Andrew writes the following at question 18 in his
supplementary tax return:

   $320 at label H
  $160 at label A.

If Andrew had received a non-assessable payment from the
fund, his cost base may have been reduced and the capital gain
may have been greater. If the fund was an AMIT, Andrew's cost
base may have been increased or decreased, and the capital
gain should be calculated to reflect his adjusted cost base. For
more information, see Chapter C2.




Example 14: a capital gain from one parcel of
shares which was given before 11:45 am AEST
on 21 September 1999 and sold more than 12
months later.
In October 1986, Fatima was given 500 shares in FJM Ltd with a
market value of $2,500. She sold the shares last March for
$4,500.

The sale is a CGT event. As Fatima acquired the shares before
21 September 1999 and owned them for more than 12 months,
she can use the indexation or discount method to calculate her
capital gain, whichever method gives her the better result.

Indexation method

If Fatima calculates her capital gain using the indexation method,
the indexation factor is:

  CPI for September 1999 quarter = 68.7

  CPI for December 1986 quarter = 44.4

  Indexation factor = 68.7 ÷ 44.4 = 1.547

Her indexed cost base is:

  $2,500 × 1.547 = $3,868.00

So her capital gain is calculated as follows:

  Capital proceeds
  $4,500
  minus Indexed cost base
  $3,868

  Capital gain
  $632

Discount method

If Fatima uses the discount method, her capital gain is calculated
as:

  Capital proceeds
  $4,500

  minus Cost base
  $2,500

  Total capital gain
  $2,000

  minus CGT discount (see note)
  $1,000

  Capital gain
  $1,000

Fatima doesn't have any capital losses. If she did, she would
deduct any capital losses before applying the CGT discount.

Fatima chooses the indexation method because it gives her a
smaller capital gain.

As she has no other CGT event and doesn't have any capital
losses, Fatima writes the following at question 18 in her
supplementary tax return:

  $632 at label H

  $632 at label A.




Example 15: a capital gain from some units
bought after 11:45 am AEST on 21 September
1999 and redeemed less than 12 months later.
Colin bought 500 units in Equity Trust for $3,500 in October and
redeemed them less than 12 months later in June for $5,000 by
switching, or transferring his units from a share fund to a
property fund. The redeeming of units is a CGT event.

As Colin owned the units for less than 12 months, he calculates
his capital gain using the ‘other’ method.

Colin’s capital gain is:



   Capital proceeds
   $5,000

   minus Cost base
   $3,500

   Capital gain
   $1,500

As he had no other CGT event and doesn't have any capital
losses, Colin writes the following at question 18 in his
supplementary tax return:

   $1,500 at label H

   $1,500 at label A.

If Colin had received a non-assessable payment from the fund,
his cost base may have been adjusted and the capital gain may
have been greater. If the fund was an AMIT, Colin's base may
have been increased or decreased, and the capital gain should
be calculated to reflect his adjusted cost base. For more
information, see Chapter C2.




Example 16: a capital gain from some shares
bought after 11:45 am AEST on 21 September
1999 and sold more than 12 months later. They
also have a net capital loss from an earlier
income year.
Mei-Ling bought 400 shares in TKY Ltd for $15,000 in October
1999 and sold them for $23,000 last February. The sale is a CGT
event. She also has a net capital loss of $1,000 from an earlier
income year that has not been applied against later income year
capital gains.

As she bought the shares after 21 September 1999, Mei-Ling
can't use the indexation method. However, as she owned the
shares for more than 12 months, she can use the discount
method. Her capital gain is:

  Capital proceeds
  $23,000

  minus Cost base
  $15,000

  Total capital gain
  $8,000

  minus net capital loss
  $1,000

  Capital gain (before applying the CGT discount)
  $7,000

  minus CGT discount
  $3,500

  Capital gain
  $3,500

As she has no other CGT event, Mei-Ling writes the following at
question 18 in her supplementary tax return:

  $8,000 at label H

  $3,500 at label A.




Example 17: a capital loss from one parcel of
shares bought before 11:45 am AEST on
21 September 1999 and sold more than 12
months later.
In October 1986, Mario purchased 2,500 shares in Machinery
Manufacturers Ltd for $2,650 including brokerage. He sold the
shares last March for $2,300 and paid $50 brokerage costs.
Mario also made a capital loss of $350 on some shares he sold in
1999–2000 but had not made any capital gain since then that he
could use to offset his capital losses.

The sale is a CGT event. Mario purchased the Machinery
Manufacturers Ltd shares before 11:45 am AEST on
21 September 1999 but he made a capital loss, so neither the
indexation nor the discount method applies.

Mario calculates his capital loss for the current income year as
follows:

  Reduced cost base ($2,650 + $50) = $2,700

  minus capital proceeds = $2,300

  Capital loss = $400

The net capital losses that Mario can carry forward to reduce
capital gains he may make in later income years are:

  Net capital loss for 2024–25 = $400

  plus net capital loss for 2023–2024 = $350

  Net capital losses carried forward to later income years =
  $750

As he has no other capital gains or capital losses, Mario writes
$750 at question 18 – label V in his supplementary tax return He
doesn't write anything at question 18 – label A.




Example 18: capital gains from shares bought
before 11.45am AEST on 21 September 1999
and had capital losses carried forward from a
previous income year.
Clare sold a parcel of 500 shares last March for $12,500 ($25
each). She had acquired the shares in March 1995 for $7,500
($15 each), including stamp duty and brokerage costs. There
were no brokerage costs on sale. Clare had no other capital gains
or capital losses for the current income year, although she has
$3,500 unapplied net capital losses carried forward from earlier
income years.

Because Clare owned the shares for more than 12 months, and
because she acquired the shares before September 1999, she
can use the discount method or the indexation method to work
out her capital gain, whichever gives her a better result. Clare
firstly works out her net capital gain by applying both the
indexation method and the discount method to the whole parcel
of shares:


Calculation of net capital gain using indexation and
discount methods

                              Using               Using
  Calculation              indexation            discount
  element                    method              method
                                $                    $


  Capital                          12,500               12,500
  proceeds

  Cost base                         8,078                7,500
                              (see Note 1
                                  below)

  Capital gain                      4,422                5,000

  subtract capital                  3,500                3,500
  losses

  Equals                             922                 1,500

  50% CGT                  Not applicable                  750
  discount

  Net capital gain                   922                  750
Note 1: (68.7 ÷ 63.8 = 1.077) ($7,500 × 1.077 = $8,078)

However, because each share is a separate asset, Clare can use
different methods to work out her capital gains for shares within
the parcel. The lowest net capital gain would result from her
applying the indexation method to sufficient shares to absorb the
capital loss (or as much of the capital loss as she can) and apply
the discount method to any remaining shares. Clare therefore
applies the indexation method to the sale of 396 (see Note 2)
shares and the discount method to the remaining 104.

Note 2: To calculate this, Clare worked out the capital gain made
on each share using the indexation method
($4,422 ÷ 500 = 8.84) and divided the capital loss by this
amount ($3,500 ÷ 8.84 = 396).

She works out her net capital gain as follows:

Indexation method (396 shares)

  Capital proceeds ($25 each)
  $9,900

  Cost base (396 × $15 × 1.077)
  $6,397

  Capital gain
  $3,503

  minus Capital losses
  $3,500

  Net capital gain
  $3

Discount method (104 shares)

  Capital proceeds ($25 each)
  $2,600

  Cost base (104 × $15)
  $1,560

  Capital gain
  $1,040

  minus 50% CGT discount
  $520
     Net capital gain
     $520

  As she has no other capital gains or capital losses, Clare writes
  the following at question 18 in her supplementary tax return:

     $4,543 at label H

     $523 at label A.

  Clare doesn't write anything at question 18 – label V.




B3: Additional information for shares and
units
This section briefly explains less common situations for personal
investors, including those arising from:

  rights or options

  stapled securities

  non-assessable payments

  share buy-backs

  takeovers and mergers

  demergers

  dividend reinvestment plans

  bonus shares and bonus units

  dividends paid by listed investment companies (LIC) that include a
  LIC capital gain.

Rights or options to acquire shares or units
If you hold shares or units, you may be issued rights or options to
acquire more shares or units at a specified price.

Rights or options issued directly to you from a
company or trust for no cost
You are considered to have acquired the rights or options at the same
time you acquired the original shares or units. Therefore, if you acquire
the original shares or units before 20 September 1985, any capital gain
or capital loss you make when the rights or options expire or are sold is
disregarded as they are pre-CGT assets.

If you acquire the original shares or units on or after 20 September
1985, you make a capital gain if the capital proceeds on the sale or
expiry of the rights or options are more than their cost base. You make
a capital loss if the reduced cost base of the rights or options is more
than those capital proceeds.


Rights and options you paid to acquire from a
company or trust, or that you acquired from another
person
If you acquire your rights or options on or after 20 September 1985,
they are treated much like any other CGT asset and are subject to
CGT.

Special rules apply if you exercise the rights or options. For more
information, or if you acquire rights or options under an employee
share scheme, see Guide to capital gains tax 2025.

Stapled securities
Stapled securities are created when 2 or more different securities are
legally bound together so that they can't be sold separately. Many
different types of securities can be stapled together, for example,
many property trusts have their units stapled to the shares of
companies with which they are closely associated.

The effect of stapling depends upon the specific terms of the stapling
arrangement. The issuer of the stapled security will be able to provide
you with detailed information on their particular stapling arrangement.
However, in general the effect of stapling is that each individual
security retains its character and there is no variation to the rights or
obligations attached to the individual securities.

Although a stapled security must be dealt with as a whole, the
individual securities that are stapled are treated separately for tax
purposes. For example, if a share in a company and a unit in a unit trust
are stapled, you:

  continue to include separately in your tax return dividends from the
  company and trust distributions from the trust
  work out any capital gain or capital loss separately for the unit and
  the share.

Because each security that makes up your stapled security is a
separate CGT asset, you must work out a cost base and reduced cost
base for each separately.

If you acquire stapled securities (for example, you bought the stapled
securities on the ASX), you apportion, on a reasonable basis, the
amount you pay to acquire the stapled security (and any other relevant
costs) among the various securities (share and unit trust) that are
stapled. One reasonable basis of apportionment is to have regard to
the portion of the value of the stapled security that each security
represented. The issuer of the stapled security may provide assistance
in determining these amounts.

If you acquire your stapled securities as part of a corporate restructure
you will, during the restructure, own individual securities that aren't
stapled. The way you work out the cost base and reduced cost base of
each security depends on the terms of the stapling arrangement. The
issuer of the stapled security may provide information to help you
determine these amounts.

When you dispose of your stapled securities, you must divide the
capital proceeds (on a reasonable basis) between the securities that
make up the stapled security and then work out whether you have
made a capital gain or capital loss on each security. The issuer of the
stapled security may provide information to help you determine these
amounts.

For examples covering stapled securities, see Guide to capital gains
tax 2025.

Non-assessable payments
There can be non-assessable payments for both shares and units.

Non-assessable payments from a company to a
shareholder
Non-assessable payments to shareholders are usually called a return
of capital. If you receive a payment from a company on your shares
and it isn't a dividend, you deduct the amount of the payment from
both the cost base and the reduced cost base of your shares.
If the non-assessable payment is greater than the cost base or
reduced cost base of your shares, you include the excess as a capital
gain. The capital gain is discounted if you hold the shares for at least
12 months.

Non-assessable payments from a managed fund to
a unit holder
The treatment of these payments is similar to non-assessable
payments from a company to a shareholder. For more information, see
Chapter C2.


Non-assessable payments under a demerger
If you receive a demerger dividend under an eligible demerger, the
dividend is non assessable and non-exempt income You need to
recalculate your cost base and reduced cost base of the two
demerged entities under the demerger rules.

An eligible demerger is one that happens on or after 1 July 2002 and
satisfies certain tests. The head entity will normally advise
shareholders or unit holders if this is the case.

For more information, see Guide to capital gains tax 2025.

Share buy-backs
If you dispose of shares back to a company under an on-market buy-
back arrangement, you make either a capital gain or capital loss.

For an off-market share buy-back no part of the buy-back price will be
treated as a dividend. Instead, the entire buy-back price is treated as
capital proceeds. For more information, see Capital proceeds from an
off-market share buy-back.

Takeovers and mergers
If a company in which you hold shares is taken over and you receive
new shares in the takeover company (the offeror), you may be entitled
to a scrip-for-scrip rollover for any capital gain you make. This means
you can defer the capital gain you make on the disposal of your old
shares until a later CGT event happens to your new shares. Usually,
the takeover company would advise you if the scrip-for-scrip rollover
conditions are satisfied.
If you also receive some cash from the takeover company, you only get
rollover on the proportion of the original shares for which you receive
shares in the takeover company. You'll need to apportion the cost base
of the original shares between the replacement shares and the cash.

If the scrip-for-scrip conditions aren't satisfied, your capital proceeds
for your original shares will be the total of any cash and the market
value of the new shares you receive.

Scrip-for-scrip rollover may also be available to the extent that units in
a managed fund are exchanged for units in another managed fund.

For more information on takeovers and mergers, see Guide to capital
gains tax 2025.


Demergers
A demerger involves the restructuring of a corporate or fixed trust
group by splitting its operations into 2 or more entities or groups.
Under a demerger, the owners of the head entity of the group (that is,
the shareholders of the company or unit holders of the trust) acquire a
direct interest (shares or units) in an entity that was formerly part of
the group.

If you own interests in a company or fixed trust that is the head entity
of a demerger group and you receive new interests in the demerged
company or trust, you may be entitled to a demerger rollover.

Generally, the head entity undertaking the demerger will advise
whether you are entitled to rollover, but you should seek our advice if
you are in any doubt. We may have provided advice in the form of a
class ruling on a specific demerger confirming that a rollover is
available. Even if you don't choose a rollover, you must recalculate the
cost base and reduced cost base of each of your original interests in
the head entity and your new interests in the demerged entity.

For more information, see:

  Demergers calculator

  Taxation Determination TD 2020/6 Income tax: what is a
  'restructuring' for the purposes of subsection 125-70(1) of the
  Income Tax Assessment Act 1997?

Dividend reinvestment plans
Under these plans, shareholders can choose to use their dividend to
acquire more shares in the company instead of receiving a cash
payment. For CGT purposes, you're treated as if you receive a cash
dividend and then use it to buy more shares. Each share (or parcel of
shares) received in this way is treated as a separate asset and you
must make a separate calculation when you sell them.

For more information on the topics covered, including demergers, see
Guide to capital gains tax 2025 and You and your shares 2025.

Bonus shares and bonus units
Bonus shares are additional shares received by a shareholder for
shares already owned. These shares may be received by a shareholder
wholly or partly as a dividend. The shareholder may also pay an
amount to get them.

Bonus units may also be received in a similar way.

The CGT rules for bonus shares and bonus units are very similar. If you
sell bonus shares or bonus units, see Guide to capital gains tax 2025.

Dividends paid by listed investment companies
(LIC) that include a LIC capital gain
If a LIC pays a dividend to you that includes a LIC capital gain amount,
you are entitled to a tax deduction.

You can claim a deduction if:

  you're an individual

  you are an Australian resident when a LIC pays you a dividend

  the dividend includes a LIC capital gain amount.

The amount of the deduction is 50% of the LIC capital gain amount.
The LIC capital gain amount is shown separately on your dividend
statement.

You don't write the LIC capital gain amount at question 18 in your
supplementary tax return.



  Example 20: LIC capital gains
   Ben, an Australian resident, was a shareholder in XYZ Ltd, a LIC.
   Last March, Ben received a dividend from XYZ Ltd of $70,000
   including a LIC capital gain amount of $50,000. Ben can claim a
   $30,000 franking credit relating to the dividend.


   Amounts Ben includes in his tax return

     Tax return label                                     Amount


     Franked amount                                       $70,000
     (at question 11 – label T in his tax return)

     Franking credit                                      $30,000
     (at question 11 – label U in his tax return)

     Amount included in total income                      $100,000

     Deduction for LIC capital gain                       $25,000
     (claimed at question D8 in his tax return)




Continue to: Part C: Distributions from managed funds

Return to: Part A: How capital gains tax applies to you




QC 104651



Part C: Distributions from managed
funds
Explains legislative changes impacting capital gains of
managed investment trusts and how to work out your
capital gain.

Published 29 May 2025
Legislative changes impacting capital
gains of managed investment trusts
The changes include:

  Attribution managed investment trusts

  Streaming

  Stapled structures


Attribution managed investment trusts
A managed investment trust (MIT) may be able to choose to apply the
attribution rules contained within a specific tax system for MITs as set
out in Division 276 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997. Where
that choice is made, the MIT becomes an attribution managed
investment trust (AMIT).

Generally, these rules apply to 'attribute' amounts for tax purposes to
each member based on their interest in the AMIT, rather than the
member being taxed based on their 'present entitlement' to the income
of the trust.

The attribution rules ensure that, for tax purposes, amounts attributed
to you by the trust:

  keep their tax character

  flow through to you

  are treated as if you receive the amount directly in your own right
  (though in the same circumstances as received by the AMIT).

For capital gains, these rules mean you'll treat the capital gains
component of your trust income as being a capital gain that you make.

The share of trust amounts attributed to you is shown on your member
statement, which for an AMIT is called an AMIT member annual
statement (AMMA statement) (similar to the standard distribution
statement provided by a managed fund).

Otherwise, for members (unitholders) of an AMIT, there should be little
practical difference to the way trust capital gains are included in your
tax return.
In addition, the cost base of your units in an AMIT may also be subject
to annual upward or downward adjustments (see Cost base
adjustments for AMIT members).

For more information, see Managed investment trusts – overview.

Streaming
In June 2011, amendments were enacted that allow the streaming of
capital gains and franked dividends to beneficiaries, subject to
relevant integrity provisions.

The amendments apply from 2017–18 to MITs which have not
previously made an election to apply the amendments. For MITs which
have previously made an election to apply the amendments, the
amendments continue to apply in 2017–18 and onwards.

The amendments don't apply to AMITs, which are subject to the
separate attribution rules that enable capital gains and franked
distributions to be attributed to members for tax purposes.

Stapled structures
Since 1 July 2019, laws:

  address risks posed by arrangements involving stapled structures

  limit access to concessions available to foreign investors for passive
  income.

A stapled structure is an arrangement where 2 or more entities that are
commonly owned (at least one of which is a trust) are bound together,
such that interests in them (for example, shares or units) can't be
bought or sold separately. The measures may change the rate of MIT
withholding tax that is applied to trading income that is converted to
passive income via a stapled structure or distributed by a trading trust.

For more information, see Stapled structures.


C1: How to work out your capital gains tax
for a managed fund distribution
Some terms in this section may be new to you, we explain these terms
in Tax time definitions.
If your managed fund distribution (as advised by the fund) includes a
capital gain amount, you include this amount at question 18 Capital
gains in your supplementary tax return. You don't include capital gains
at question 13 Partnerships and trusts.

Examples of managed funds include property trusts, share trusts,
equity trusts, growth trusts, imputation trusts and balanced trusts.

Distributions from managed funds can include 2 types of amounts that
affect your CGT obligation:

  capital gains

  non-assessable payments.

The following steps in this section show you how to record a capital
gain distributed from a managed fund. Chapter C2 covers non-
assessable amounts which mostly affect the cost base of units but can
create a capital gain.

Step 1 Work out the capital gain you have received
from the managed fund
You need to know whether you have received any capital gain in your
distribution; to find out, check the statement from your managed fund.

This statement should also show which method the fund has used to
calculate the gain; the indexation, discount or ‘other’ method. You must
use the same methods as the fund to calculate your capital gain. (We
explain these methods in Part A and Part B, and in Tax time
definitions).

Fund managers may use different terms to describe the calculation
methods and other terms used in this guide. For example, they may
refer to capital gains calculated using the indexation method and the
‘other’ method as non-discount gains.

Step 2 Gross up any discounted capital gain you
have received
If the fund applies the CGT discount to your distribution, this is known
as a discounted capital gain.

You need to gross up any discounted capital gain distributed to you by
multiplying the gain by 2. This grossed-up amount is your capital gain
from the fund. If the managed fund shows the grossed-up amount of
the discounted capital gain on your distribution statement, you can use
that amount.



  Example 21: grossing up a capital gain
  Tim receives a distribution from a fund that includes a
  discounted capital gain of $400. Tim’s statement shows that the
  fund has used the discount method to calculate the gain.

  Tim grosses up the capital gain to $800 (that is, $400 × 2).



Step 3 Work out your total current income year
capital gains
Add up all the capital gains you received from funds (grossed up
where necessary) together with any capital gains from other assets.
Write the total of all your capital gains for the current year at
question 18 – label H in your supplementary tax return.

If you have any capital losses, don't deduct them from the capital gains
before showing the total amount at label H.



  Example 22: ‘other’ method
  Tim’s fund also distributes a capital gain of $100 calculated using
  the ‘other’ method. Tim includes $900 ($800 + $100) at
  question 18 – label H in his supplementary tax return.



Step 4 Applying capital losses against capital gains
If you have no capital losses from assets you disposed of this year and
no unapplied net capital losses from earlier income years, go to Step 5.

If you make capital losses this year, deduct them from the amount you
wrote at label H. If you have unapplied net capital losses from earlier
income years, deduct them from the amount remaining after you
deduct capital losses made this year. Deduct both types of losses in
the manner that gives you the greatest benefit.

Subtracting your losses
You'll probably get the greatest benefit if you subtract capital losses
from capital gains distributed from the fund in the following order:

1. capital gains calculated using the ‘other’ method

2. capital gains calculated using the indexation method or the discount
   method.

If the total of your capital losses for the current year and unapplied net
capital losses from earlier income years is greater than your capital
gains for the current year, go to Step 7.



  Example 23: subtracting capital loss
  If Tim has a capital loss of $200 when he sells another CGT
  asset, he subtracts his capital loss ($200) from his capital gain
  ($900) and arrives at $700. As he applied the loss first against
  the capital gain calculated using the ‘other’ method and then
  against the capital gain calculated using the discount method
  (after grossing it up), Tim can apply the CGT discount to the
  remaining $700.


Losses from collectables and personal use assets
You can only use capital losses from collectables this year and
unapplied net capital losses from collectables from earlier income
years to reduce capital gains from collectables. Jewellery, art and
antiques are examples of collectables.

Losses from personal use assets are disregarded. Personal use assets
are assets mainly used for personal use that aren't collectables, such
as a boat you use for recreation. For more information, see Guide to
capital gains tax 2025.

Step 5 Applying the CGT discount
If you have any remaining grossed-up discount capital gains you can
now apply the CGT discount, if applicable, and reduce them by 50%.

Remember, you can't apply the CGT discount to capital gains
distributed from the fund calculated using the indexation or ‘other’
method.
  Example 24: applying the CGT discount
  Following on from Example 23, Tim has a discounted capital
  gains of $700. He now reduces the amount remaining by 50%:

       $700 × 50% = $350

  Tim has a net capital gain of $350.



Step 6 Write your net capital gain in your tax return
The amount remaining after completing steps 1–5 is your net capital
gain for the income year. Write this at question 18 – label A in your
supplementary tax return.



  Example 25: writing your net capital gain in your tax
  return
  Tim writes $350 at question 18 – label A in his supplementary tax
  return.



Step 7 Work out your carry-forward losses
If the total of your capital losses for the year and unapplied net capital
losses from earlier income years is greater than your capital gains for
the year, you were directed to this step from step 4.

Don't write anything at question 18 – label A in your supplementary tax
return.

At question 18 – label V in your supplementary tax return, write the
amount by which the total of your capital losses for the year and net
capital losses from earlier income years exceeds your capital gains for
the year. You carry this amount forward to be applied against later
income year capital gains.

For more information on CGT and managed fund distributions, see
Guide to capital gains tax 2025.


C2: Non-assessable payments from a
managed fund
Non-assessable payments from a managed fund to a unit holder are
common and may be shown on your statement from the fund as:

  tax-free amounts

  CGT-concession amounts

  tax-exempted amounts

  tax-deferred amounts.

You may need to adjust the cost base and reduced cost base of your
units depending on the kind of non-assessable payment you received.
Slightly different rules apply to AMITs.

Tax-free amounts relate to certain tax concessions received by the
fund which enable it to pay greater distributions to its unit holders. If
your statement shows any tax-free amounts, you adjust the reduced
cost base (but not your cost base) of your units by these amounts.
Payments of amounts associated with building allowances which were
made before 1 July 2001 were treated as tax-free amounts.

CGT-concession amounts relate to the CGT discount component of
any actual distribution. Such amounts don't affect your cost base and
reduced cost base if they are received after 30 June 2001. A CGT-
concession amount received before 1 July 2001 is taken off the cost
base and reduced cost base.

Tax-exempted amounts are generally made up of non-assessable non-
exempt income of the fund, amounts on which the fund has already
paid tax or income you had to repay to the fund. Such amounts don't
affect your cost base and reduced cost base.

Tax-deferred amounts are other non-assessable amounts, including
indexation received by the fund on its capital gains and accounting
differences in income. You adjust the cost base and reduced cost base
of your units by these amounts. Payments associated with building
allowances which are made on or after 1 July 2001 are treated as tax-
deferred amounts.

If the tax-deferred amount is greater than the cost base of your units,
you include the excess as a capital gain. You can use the indexation
method if you bought your units before 11:45 am AEST on
21 September 1999.

You can't make a capital loss from a non-assessable payment.
As a result of some stapling arrangements, investors in some managed
funds have received units which have a very low cost base. The
payment of certain non-assessable amounts in excess of the cost
base of the units will result in these investors making a capital gain.

Cost-base adjustments for AMIT members
You may need to make an upwards or a downwards adjustment to the
cost base of your units (or other membership interests) in an AMIT.
Upwards adjustments are only available for units in trusts that are
AMITs. For more information on the rules for AMITs, see Attribution
managed investment trusts.

The amount of any annual upwards or downwards cost base
adjustment to your units is determined by your AMIT cost base net
amount. The AMIT will calculate your AMIT cost base net amount,
which is the balance of your AMIT cost base reduction amount and
your AMIT cost base increase amount. You won't need to refer
separately to tax-free or tax-deferred amounts to determine the cost
base adjustment for your units in an AMIT, however these amounts
should broadly be reflected in the AMIT cost base net amount
calculated by the AMIT.

Effectively, the cost base adjustment rules for AMITs apply to:

  increase the cost base of your units by your AMIT cost base
  increase amount, being

     amounts attributed to you by the AMIT that are to be included in
     your assessable income or your non-assessable non-exempt
     income for the income year, plus

     amounts attributed to you by the AMIT for the income year that
     relate to trust capital gains

  reduce the cost base amount of your units by your AMIT cost base
  reduction amount, being

     the actual cash payments you received (or have a right to
     receive) for your units, plus

     amounts of any tax offsets that you have for the income year on
     amounts attributed to you by the AMIT.

If your AMIT cost base reduction amount exceeds your AMIT cost base
increase amount, the excess is your AMIT cost base net amount and
this amount is used to reduce the cost base of your units. If the AMIT
cost base net amount is greater than your cost base, it will reduce your
cost base to nil, and any remaining amount will result in a capital gain.
If the AMIT cost base net amount is less than your cost base, your cost
base amount will be decreased, which could result in a greater capital
gain or reduced capital loss on the disposal of your units in the AMIT.
The same adjustments are also made to your reduced cost base.

If your AMIT cost base reduction amount falls short of your AMIT cost
base increase amount, the shortfall is your AMIT cost base net amount
and this amount is used to increase the cost base and reduced cost
base of your units. This could result in a reduced capital gain or
increased capital loss on disposal of your units.

Your statement of distribution (called an AMMA statement) from the
AMIT should show the AMIT cost base net amount and other
information relevant to your cost base and reduced cost base.

For more information, see Law Companion Ruling LCR 2015/11
Attribution Managed Investment Trusts: annual cost base adjustments
for units in an AMIT and associated transitional rules.


C3: Worked examples for managed fund
distributions
The following worked examples take the steps explained in Chapter C1
and put them into different scenarios to demonstrate how they work.

If you receive a distribution from a managed fund, you may be able to
apply one or more of these examples to your circumstances to help
you work out your CGT obligations for 2024–25 and complete the
Capital gains question in your tax return.



  Example 26: receiving a non-assessable
  amount from a managed fund
  Bob owns units in OZ Investments Fund, which distributed
  income to him last May. The fund gave him a statement showing
  his distribution included the following capital gains:

     $100 calculated using the discount method (grossed-up
     amount $200)

     $75 calculated using the indexation method
  $28 calculated using the ‘other’ method.

These capital gains add up to $203.

The statement shows Bob’s distribution included a $105 tax-
deferred amount.

From his records, Bob knows that the cost base and reduced
cost base of his units are $1,200 and $1,050 respectively.

Bob has no other capital gains or capital losses for the income
year.

Bob follows these steps to work out the amounts to write in his
tax return.

As Bob has a capital gain which the fund reduced by 50% under
the discount method ($100), he includes the grossed-up amount
($200) in his total current income year capital gains.

To work out his total 2024–25 capital gains Bob adds the
grossed-up amount to his capital gains calculated using the
indexation method and ‘other’ method:

    $200 + $75 + $28 = $303

As Bob has no other capital gains or capital losses and he must
use the discount method for the discounted capital gain from the
trust, his net capital gain is equal to the amount of capital gain
included in his distribution from the fund ($203).

Bob writes the following at question 18 in his supplementary tax
return:

  $303 at label H

  $203 at label A.

Other CGT consequences for Bob (where OZ Investments Fund
isn't an AMIT)

The tax-deferred amount Bob received isn't included in his
income or capital gains, but it affects the cost base and reduced
cost base of his units in OZ Investments Fund for future income
years.

Bob deducts the tax-deferred amount from both the cost base
and reduced cost base of his units as follows:
Overall cost base

  Element                                         Amount ($)


  Cost base                                                 1,200

  minus tax-deferred amount                                   105

  New cost base                                             1,095

  Reduced cost base                                         1,050

  minus tax-deferred amount                                   105

  New reduced cost base                                       945


A CGT-concession amount is only taken off the cost base and
reduced cost base if it was received before 1 July 2001.

If OZ Investments Fund is an AMIT, Bob should instead refer to
the AMIT cost base net amount to determine any cost base
adjustment.




Example 27: a capital loss that is greater than
the capital gains calculated under the
indexation method and ‘other’ method
Ilena invested in XYZ Managed Fund. The fund makes a
distribution to Ilena last April and gives her a statement that
shows her distribution included:

  $65 discounted capital gain

  $50 capital gain calculated using the ‘other’ method

  $40 capital gain calculated using the indexation method.

The statement shows Ilena’s distribution also included:

  $30 tax-deferred amount
   $35 tax-free amount.

Ilena has no other capital gain but made a capital loss of $100
when she sold some shares during the income year.

From her records, Ilena knows the cost base of her units is
$5,000 and their reduced cost base is $4,700.

Ilena has to treat the capital gain component of her fund
distribution as if she made the capital gain. To complete her tax
return, Ilena must identify the capital gain component of her fund
distribution and work out her net capital gain.

Ilena follows these steps to work out the amounts to show at
question 18 – label H in her supplementary tax return.

As Ilena has a $65 capital gain which the fund reduced by the
CGT discount of 50%, she must gross up the capital gain. She
does this by multiplying the amount of the discounted capital
gain by 2:

    $65 × 2 = $130

To work out her total current income year capital gains, Ilena
adds her grossed-up capital gain to her capital gains calculated
under the indexation method and ‘other’ method:

    $130 + $50 + $40 = $220

She shows her total current income year capital gains ($220) at
question 18 – label H in her supplementary tax return.

Now Ilena subtracts her capital losses from her capital gains.

Ilena can choose which capital gains she subtracts her capital
losses from first. In her case, she will receive a better result if
she:

1. subtracts as much as possible of her capital losses (which
   were $100) against her indexed and ‘other’ method capital
   gains. Her gains under these methods were $40 and $50
   respectively (a total of $90), so she subtracts $90 of her
   capital losses from these capital gains

   $90 − $90 = $0 (indexed and ‘other’ method capital gains)
2. subtracts her remaining capital losses after step 1 ($10)
   against her discounted capital gains ($130)

  $130 − $10 = $120 (discounted capital gains)

3. applies the CGT discount to her remaining discounted capital
   gains

  ($120 × 50%) = $60 (discounted capital gains).

Finally, Ilena adds up the capital gains remaining to arrive at her
net capital gain:

    $0 (indexed and ‘other’) + $60 (discounted) = $60 net
    capital gain

Ilena writes the following at question 18 in her supplementary tax
return:

  $220 at label H

  $60 at label A.

Other CGT consequences for Ilena (where XYZ Managed Fund
isn't an AMIT)

The tax-deferred and tax-free amounts Ilena received are not
included in her income or her capital gain but the tax-deferred
amount affects the cost base and reduced cost base of her units
in XYZ Managed Fund for future income years. The tax-free
amount affects her reduced cost base.

Ilena reduces the cost base and reduced cost base of her units
as follows:


Overall cost base

  Element                                         Amount ($)


  Cost base                                                 5,000

  minus tax-deferred amount                                    30

  New cost base                                             4,970
Overall reduced cost base

                                                     Amount
  Element
                                                       ($)


  Reduced cost base                                      4,700

  subtract (tax-deferred amount + tax-free                   65
  amount) ($30 + $35)

  New reduced cost base                                  4,635


If XYZ Managed Fund is an AMIT, Ilena should instead refer to the
AMIT cost base net amount to determine any cost base
adjustment.




Example 28: notified of an AMIT cost base net
adjustment
Miriam owns units in the Exponential Growth Fund, which has
elected to the new tax system for managed investment trusts in
2024–25, and is therefore an AMIT. Her units have a cost base of
$55 each.

The fund attributes $13 of assessable income per unit to Miriam
for 2024–25 but only pays a cash dividend amount of $3 per unit.
Exponential Growth Fund retains the balance of $10 per unit for
reinvestment rather than paying it as a cash distribution. The $13
attributed amount is included in Miriam's assessable income.

Cost base consequences

The $13 attributed to Miriam that is included in her assessable
income is her AMIT cost base increase amount. The actual
payment of $3 she received is her AMIT cost base reduction
amount. The AMIT cost base increase amount is netted off
against the AMIT cost base reduction amount, resulting in a
shortfall AMIT cost base net amount of $10 per unit. Miriam's
AMMA statement shows the AMIT cost base net amount of $10.
  The $10 (shortfall) AMIT cost base net amount is used to
  increase the cost base (and reduced cost base) of her units in
  Exponential Growth Fund. She will need to include it in her cost
  base (and reduced cost base) calculations when she eventually
  sells her units in the fund, to ensure that the undistributed
  amount already attributed to her isn't double taxed as a capital
  gain.


  New cost base

     Element                                         Amount ($)


     Cost base per unit                                        55

     add AMIT cost base net amount (shortfall)                  10

     New cost base per unit                                    65

  Alternatively, the fund attributes $3 of assessable income per
  unit to Miriam for 2024–25 but paid a cash dividend amount of
  $13 per unit. Exponential Growth Fund paid $10 as a cash
  distribution rather than retaining that amount for reinvestment.
  The $13 paid is included in Miriam's assessable income.

  As Miriam’s cash distribution is greater than the attribution
  amount, the excess of $10 reduces the tax cost base of her units
  in the AMIT by $10

  New cost base


     Element                                          Amount ($)

     Cost base per unit                               55

     minus AMIT cost base net amount (shortfall)      10

     New cost base per unit                           45




Return to: Part B: Sale of shares or units
  QC 104651




Our commitment to you
We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear
information to help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet
your obligations.

If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is
misleading and you make a mistake as a result, we will take that into
account when determining what action, if any, we should take.

Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year.
This is clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year
before making decisions based on that information.

If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or
you are unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional
advice.

Copyright notice
© Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia

You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as
you wish (but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth
endorses you or any of your services or products).
