CGT and the TOFA rules
Last updated 26 May 2022




     On this page

     When will the TOFA rules affect an entity's tax return?

     Which entities are affected?

     Key impacts on CGT

     TOFA and capital proceeds and cost base rules

     TOFA rules apply instead of CGT rules

     Hedging financial arrangements


Explains the key provisions of the TOFA rules are found in Division 230 of the ITAA
1997.



When will the TOFA rules affect an entity's tax return?
The TOFA rules apply to financial arrangements that an affected entity starts to have
in its first income year commencing on or after 1 July 2010 (unless it elected for the
rules to apply a year earlier).
Which entities are affected?
The TOFA rules will apply to you if you are:

  an authorised deposit-taking institution, securitisation vehicle or financial sector
  entity with an aggregated annual turnover of $20 million or more

  a superannuation entity, approved deposit fund, pooled superannuation trust,
  managed investment scheme or entity with a similar status under foreign law
  relating to foreign regulation, with assets of $100 million or more

  any other entity (other than an individual) which satisfies one or more of the
  following

       an aggregated turnover of $100 million or more

       assets of $300 million or more

       financial assets of $100 million or more.


If you do not meet these requirements you can elect to have the TOFA rules apply to
you.



Key impacts on CGT
Where the TOFA rules apply, they will have the following key impacts on CGT:

  They may operate to modify the cost base of, or capital proceeds from, a CGT
  asset.

  A capital gain or capital loss made from a CGT asset that is a financial arrangement
  may be disregarded.

  Certain gains and losses from hedging financial arrangements may be taxed under
  the CGT rules.



TOFA and capital proceeds and cost base rules
If the TOFA rules apply to you and you start or cease to have a financial arrangement
as consideration for the disposal of a CGT asset, the TOFA rules will operate to
determine the capital proceeds from the CGT asset. In general, the rules operate to
ensure your capital proceeds are the market value of the CGT asset at the time of its
disposal.

In the same way, the TOFA rules may determine that the first element of the cost base
and reduced cost base of your CGT asset is the market value of the CGT asset at the
time of its acquisition.

The TOFA rules can also affect other elements of the cost base and reduced cost
base if the financial arrangement represents consideration for something obtained
which is relevant to the other elements of the cost base and reduced cost base.



  Example 52: TOFA and capital proceeds and cost base rules

  Both ABC Co and Aus Co are subject to the TOFA rules.

  On 1 July 2021, ABC Co enters into a contract to sell land to Aus Co for
  $250,000. Under the terms of the contract, title to the land passes in 6 months'
  time on 1 January 2022, and payment is to be made on 1 July 2023 (that is,
  18 months after title to the land passes). The market value of the land on
  1 January 2022 is $200,000.

  On 1 January 2022 when ABC Co passes the title to the land to Aus Co it will
  start to have a financial arrangement as consideration for the disposal of its
  land. The TOFA rules will operate so that ABC Co is taken to have received an
  amount equal to the market value of the land when it is provided. Therefore, ABC
  Co’s capital proceeds are $200,000. Similarly, Aus Co’s first element of its cost
  base is $200,000. For both ABC Co and Aus Co, the additional $50,000 relates
  to a financial arrangement which is taxed under the TOFA rules and is not
  subject to the CGT rules.




TOFA rules apply instead of CGT rules
Where the application of the TOFA rules results in you making a gain or loss from your
financial arrangement that is a CGT asset, a capital gain or capital loss that is made
from a CGT event that happens to the CGT asset is disregarded. In general, this does
not apply for superannuation entities, where CGT remains the primary code for
calculating gains and losses from financial arrangements.



Hedging financial arrangements
The TOFA rules (/Business/Taxation-of-financial-arrangements-(TOFA)/In-
detail/Guide-to-the-taxation-of-financial-arrangements-(TOFA)/) provide for a
hedging tax-timing method that allows gains and losses from certain hedging financial
arrangements to be characterised and taxed in accordance with the tax treatment of
the underlying item being hedged. For example, if a valid hedging tax-timing method
election is in effect, gains or losses from a hedging financial arrangement used to
hedge against risks associated with a CGT asset will be treated as a capital gain or
capital loss on the same basis as the capital gain or capital loss on the underlying
CGT asset that is being hedged. If this applies to you, specify the amount of the gains
or losses from the relevant hedging financial arrangements on your Capital gains tax
schedule 2022 (/forms-and-instructions/capital-gains-tax-schedule-2022).

Continue to: Real estate and main residence (/forms-and-instructions/capital-gains-
tax-guide-2022/part-a-about-capital-gains-tax/real-estate-and-main-residence?
anchor=Real_estate_and_main_residence#Real_estate_and_main_residence)




QC 67993




Our commitment to you
We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to
help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations.

If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you
make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what
action, if any, we should take.
Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is
clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making
decisions based on that information.

If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are
unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice.


Copyright notice

© Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia

You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish
(but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any
of your services or products).
