Hedging financial arrangements
Last updated 26 May 2016

The TOFA rules provide for a hedging tax-timing method that allows gains and losses
from certain hedging financial arrangements to be characterised and taxed in
accordance with the tax treatment of the underlying item being hedged. For example,
if a valid hedging tax-timing method election is in effect, gains or losses from a
hedging financial arrangement used to hedge against risks associated with a CGT
asset will be treated as a capital gain or capital loss on the same basis as the capital
gain or capital loss on the underlying CGT asset that is being hedged. If this applies to
you, specify the amount of the gains or losses from the relevant hedging financial
arrangements on the Capital gains tax (CGT) schedule 2016
(/sitecore/service/notfound.aspx?item=web%3a%7b5543E408-06F3-4EA6-BFBF-
D9EDEA662273%7d%40en).

For more information, see Guide to the taxation of financial arrangements (TOFA)
(/Business/Taxation-of-financial-arrangements-(TOFA)/In-detail/Guide-to-the-
taxation-of-financial-arrangements-(TOFA)/).




QC 48117




Our commitment to you
We are committed to providing you with accurate, consistent and clear information to
help you understand your rights and entitlements and meet your obligations.

If you follow our information and it turns out to be incorrect, or it is misleading and you
make a mistake as a result, we will take that into account when determining what
action, if any, we should take.

Some of the information on this website applies to a specific financial year. This is
clearly marked. Make sure you have the information for the right year before making
decisions based on that information.

If you feel that our information does not fully cover your circumstances, or you are
unsure how it applies to you, contact us or seek professional advice.


Copyright notice
© Australian Taxation Office for the Commonwealth of Australia

You are free to copy, adapt, modify, transmit and distribute this material as you wish
(but not in any way that suggests the ATO or the Commonwealth endorses you or any
of your services or products).
